---
annotations:
- type: Pathway Ontology
  value: signaling pathway
authors:
- ReactomeTeam
- Anwesha
- Egonw
description: 'ERBB4, also known as HER4, belongs to the ERBB family of receptors,
  which also includes ERBB1 (EGFR/HER1), ERBB2 (HER2/NEU) and ERBB3 (HER3). Similar
  to EGFR, ERBB4 has an extracellular ligand binding domain, a single transmembrane
  domain and a cytoplasmic domain which contains an active tyrosine kinase and a C-tail
  with multiple phosphorylation sites. At least three and possibly four splicing isoforms
  of ERBB4 exist that differ in their C-tail and/or the extracellular juxtamembrane
  regions: ERBB4 JM-A CYT1, ERBB4 JM-A CYT2 and ERBB4 JM-B CYT1 (the existence of
  ERBB4 JM-B CYT2 has not been confirmed). <br><br>ERBB4 becomes activated by binding
  one of its seven ligands, three of which, HB-EGF, epiregulin EPR and betacellulin
  BTC, are EGF-like (Elenius et al. 1997, Riese et al. 1998), while four, NRG1, NRG2,
  NRG3 and NRG4, belong to the related neuregulin family (Tzahar et al. 1994, Carraway
  et al. 1997, Zhang et al. 1997, Hayes et al. 2007). Upon ligand binding, ERBB4 forms
  homodimers (Sweeney et al. 2000) or it heterodimerizes with ERBB2 (Li et al. 2007).
  Dimers of ERBB4 undergo trans-autophosphorylation on tyrosine residues in the C-tail
  (Cohen et al. 1996, Kaushansky et al. 2008, Hazan et al. 1990, Li et al. 2007),
  triggering downstream signaling cascades. The pathway Signaling by ERBB4 only shows
  signaling by ERBB4 homodimers. Signaling by heterodimers of ERBB4 and ERBB2 is shown
  in the pathway Signaling by ERBB2. Ligand-stimulated ERBB4 is also able to form
  heterodimers with ligand-stimulated EGFR (Cohen et al. 1996) and ligand-stimulated
  ERBB3 (Riese et al. 1995). Dimers of ERBB4 with EGFR and dimers of ERBB4 with ERBB3
  were demonstrated in mouse cell lines in which human ERBB4 and EGFR or ERBB3 were
  exogenously expressed. These heterodimers undergo trans-autophosphorylation. The
  promiscuous heteromerization of ERBBs adds combinatorial diversity to ERBB signaling
  processes. As ERBB4 binds more ligands than other ERBBs, but has restricted expression,
  ERBB4 expression channels responses to ERBB ligands. The signaling capabilities
  of the four receptors have been compared (Schulze et al. 2005).<br><br>As for other
  receptor tyrosine kinases, ERBB4 signaling effectors are largely dictated through
  binding of effector proteins to ERBB4 peptides that are phosphorylated upon ligand
  binding. All splicing isoforms of ERBB4 possess two tyrosine residues in the C-tail
  that serve as docking sites for SHC1 (Kaushansky et al. 2008, Pinkas-Kramarski et
  al. 1996, Cohen et al. 1996). Once bound to ERBB4, SHC1 becomes phosphorylated on
  tyrosine residues by the tyrosine kinase activity of ERBB4, which enables it to
  recruit the complex of GRB2 and SOS1, resulting in the guanyl-nucleotide exchange
  on RAS and activation of RAF and MAP kinase cascade (Kainulainen et al. 2000). <br><br>The
  CYT1 isoforms of ERBB4 also possess a C-tail tyrosine residue that, upon trans-autophosphorylation,
  serves as a docking site for the p85 alpha subunit of PI3K (Kaushansky et al. 2008,
  Cohen et al. 1996), leading to assembly of an active PI3K complex that converts
  PIP2 to PIP3 and activates AKT signaling (Kainulainen et al. 2000). <br><br>Besides
  signaling as a conventional transmembrane receptor kinase, ERBB4 differs from other
  ERBBs in that JM-A isoforms signal through efficient release of a soluble intracellular
  domain. Ligand activated homodimers of ERBB4 JM-A isoforms (ERBB4 JM-A CYT1 and
  ERBB4 JM-A CYT2) undergo proteolytic cleavage by ADAM17 (TACE) in the juxtamembrane
  region, resulting in shedding of the extracellular domain and formation of an 80
  kDa membrane bound ERBB4 fragment known as ERBB4 m80 (Rio et al. 2000, Cheng et
  al. 2003). ERBB4 m80 undergoes further proteolytic cleavage, mediated by the gamma-secretase
  complex, which releases the soluble 80 kDa ERBB4 intracellular domain, known as
  ERBB4 s80 or E4ICD, into the cytosol (Ni et al. 2001). ERBB4 s80 is able to translocate
  to the nucleus, promote nuclear translocation of various transcription factors,
  and act as a transcription co-factor. For example, in mammary cells, ERBB4 binds
  SH2 transcription factor STAT5A. ERBB4 s80 shuttles STAT5A to the nucleus, and actsa
  as a STAT5A co-factor in binding to and promoting transcription from the beta-casein
  (CSN2) promoter, and may be involved in the regulation of other lactation-related
  genes (Jones et al. 1999, Williams et al. 2004, Muraoka-Cook et al. 2008). ERBB4
  s80 binds activated estrogen receptor in the nucleus and acts as a transcriptional
  co-factor in promoting transcription of some estrogen-regulated genes, including
  progesterone receptor gene NR3C3 and CXCL12 (SDF1) (Zhu et al. 2006). In neuronal
  precursors, ERBB4 s80 binds the complex of TAB and NCOR1, helps to move the complex
  into the nucleus, and is a co-factor of TAB:NCOR1-mediated inhibition of expression
  of astrocyte differentiation genes GFAP and S100B (Sardi et al. 2006).<br><br>The
  C-tail of ERBB4 possesses several WW-domain binding motifs (three in CYT1 isoform
  and two in CYT2 isoform), which enable interaction of ERBB4 with WW-domain containing
  proteins. ERBB4 s80, through WW-domain binding motifs, interacts with YAP1 transcription
  factor, a known proto-oncogene, and is a co-regulator of YAP1-mediated transcription
  in association with TEAD transcription factors (Komuro et al. 2003, Omerovic et
  al. 2004). Hence, the WW binding motif couples ERBB4 to the major effector arm of
  the HIPPO signaling pathway. The tumor suppressor WWOX, another WW-domain containing
  protein, competes with YAP1 in binding to ERBB4 s80 and prevents translocation of
  ERBB4 s80 to the nucleus (Aqeilan et al. 2005).<br><br>WW-domain binding motifs
  in the C-tail of ERBB4 play an important role in the downregulation of ERBB4 receptor
  signaling, enabling the interaction of intact ERBB4, ERBB4 m80 and ERBB4 s80 with
  NEDD4 family of E3 ubiquitin ligases WWP1 and ITCH. The interaction of WWP1 and
  ITCH with intact ERBB4 is independent of receptor activation and autophosphorylation.
  Binding of WWP1 and ITCH ubiquitin ligases leads to ubiquitination of ERBB4 and
  its cleavage products, and subsequent degradation through both proteasomal and lysosomal
  routes (Omerovic et al. 2007, Feng et al. 2009). In addition, the s80 cleavage product
  of ERBB4 JM-A CYT-1 isoform is the target of NEDD4 ubiquitin ligase. NEDD4 binds
  ERBB4 JM-A CYT-1 s80 (ERBB4jmAcyt1s80) through its PIK3R1 interaction site and mediates
  ERBB4jmAcyt1s80 ubiquitination, thereby decreasing the amount of ERBB4jmAcyt1s80
  that reaches the nucleus (Zeng et al. 2009).<br><br>ERBB4 also binds the E3 ubiquitin
  ligase MDM2, and inhibitor of p53 (Arasada et al. 2005). Other proteins that bind
  to ERBB4 intracellular domain have been identified by co-immunoprecipitation and
  mass spectrometry (Gilmore-Hebert et al., 2010), and include transcriptional co-repressor
  TRIM28/KAP1, which promotes chromatin compaction. DNA damage signaling through ATM
  releases TRIM28-associated heterochromatinization. Interactions of ERBB4 with TRIM28
  and MDM2 may be important for integration of growth factor responses and DNA damage
  responses.<br><br>In human breast cancer cell lines, ERBB4 activation enhances anchorage-independent
  colony formation in soft agar but inhibits cell growth in a monolayer culture. Different
  ERBB4 ligands induce different gene expression changes in breast cancer cell lines.
  Some of the genes induced in response to ERBB4 signaling in breast cancer cell lines
  are RAB2, EPS15R and GATA4. It is not known if these gene are direct transcriptional
  targets of ERBB4 (Amin et al. 2004).<br><br>Transcriptome and ChIP-seq comparisons
  of full-length and intracellular domain isoforms in isogenic MCF10A mammary cell
  background have revealed the diversification of ERBB4 signaling engendered by alternative
  splicing and cleavage (Wali et al., 2014). ERBB4 broadly affected protease expression,
  cholesterol biosynthesis, HIF1-alpha signaling, and HIPPO signaling pathways, and
  other pathways were differentially activated by CYT1 and CYT2 isoforms. For example,
  CYT1 promoted expression of transcription factors TWIST1 and SNAIL1 that promote
  epithelial-mesenchymal transition. HIF1-alpha and HIPPO signaling are mediated,
  respectively, by binding of ERBB4 to HIF1-alpha and to YAP (Paatero et al., 2012,
  Komuro et al., 2003). ERBB4 increases activity of the transcription factor SREBF2,
  resulting in increased expression of SREBF2-target genes involved in cholesterol
  biosynthesis. The mechanism is not known and may involve facilitation of SREBF2
  cleavage through ERBB4-mediated PI3K signaling (Haskins et al. 2016).<br><br>In
  some contexts, ERBB4 promotes growth suppression or apoptosis (Penington et al.,
  2002). Activation of ERBB4 in breast cancer cell lines leads to JNK dependent increase
  in BRCA1 mRNA level and mitotic cell cycle delay, but the exact mechanism has not
  been elucidated (Muraoka Cook et al. 2006). The nature of growth responses may be
  connected with the spliced isoforms expressed. In comparisons of CYT1 vs CYT2 (full-length
  and ICD) expression in mammary cells, CYT1 was a weaker growth inducer, associated
  with attenuated MAPK signaling relative to CYT2 (Wali et al., 2014). ERBB4 s80 is
  also able to translocate to the mitochondrial matrix, presumably when its nuclear
  translocation is inhibited. Once in the mitochondrion, the BH3 domain of ERBB4,
  characteristic of BCL2 family members, may enable it to act as a pro apoptotic factor
  (Naresh et al. 2006).<br><br>ERBB4 plays important roles in the developing and adult
  nervous system. Erbb4 deficiency in somatostatin-expressing neurons of the thalamic
  reticular nucleus alters behaviors dependent on sensory selection (Ahrens et al.
  2015). NRG1-activated ERBB4 signaling enhances AMPA receptor responses through PKC-dependent
  AMPA receptor exocytosis. This results in an increased excitatory input to parvalbumin-expressing
  inhibitory neurons in the visual cortex and regulates visual cortical plasticity
  (Sun et al. 2016). NRG1-activated ERBB4 signaling is involved in GABAergic activity
  in amygdala which mediates fear conditioning (fear memory) (Lu et al. 2014). Conditional
  Erbb4 deletion from fast-spiking interneurons, chandelier and basket cells of the
  cerebral cortex leads to synaptic defects associated with increased locomotor activity
  and abnormal emotional, social and cognitive function that can be linked to some
  of the schizophrenia features. The level of GAD1 (GAD67) protein is reduced in the
  cortex of conditional Erbb4 mutants. GAD1 is a GABA synthesizing enzyme. Cortical
  mRNA levels of GAD67 are consistently decreased in schizophrenia (Del Pino et al.
  2014). Erbb4 is expressed in the GABAergic neurons of the bed nucleus stria terminalis,
  a part of the extended amygdala. Inhibition of NRG1-triggered ERBB4 signaling induces
  anxiety-like behavior, which depends on GABAergic neurotransmission. NRG1-ERBB4
  signaling stimulates presynaptic GABA release, but the exact mechanism is not known
  (Geng et al. 2016). NRG1 protects cortical interneurons against ischemic brain injury
  through ERBB4-mediated increase in GABAergic transmission (Guan et al. 2015). NRG2-activated
  ERBB4 can reduce the duration of GABAergic transmission by binding to GABA receptors
  at the postsynaptic membrane via their GABRA1 subunit and promoting endocytosis
  of GABA receptors (Mitchell et al. 2013). NRG1 promotes synchronization of prefrontal
  cortex interneurons in an ERBB4 dependent manner (Hou et al. 2014). NRG1-ERBB4 signaling
  protects neurons from the cell death induced by a mutant form of the amyloid precursor
  protein (APP) (Woo et al. 2012).<br><br>Clinical relevance of ERBB4 has been identified
  in several contexts. In cancer, putative and validated gain-of-function mutations
  or gene amplification that may be drivers have been identified at modest frequencies,
  and may also contribute to resistance to EGFR and ERBB2-targeted therapies. This
  is noteworthy as ERBB4 kinase activity is inhibited by pan-ERBB tyrosine kinase
  inhibitors, including lapatinib, which is approved by the US FDA. The reduced prevalence
  relative to EGFR and ERBB2 in cancer may reflect more restricted expression of ERBB4,
  or differential signaling, as specific ERBB4 isoforms have been linked to growth
  inhibition or apoptosis in experimental systems. ERBB2/ERBB4 heterodimers protect
  cardiomyocytes, so reduced activity of ERBB4 in patients treated with the ERBB2-targeted
  therapeutic antibody trastuzumab may contribute to the cardiotoxicity of this agent
  when used in combination with (cardiotoxic) anthracyclines.<br><br>With the importance
  of ERBB4 in developing and adult nervous system, NRG1 and/or ERBB4 polymorphisms,
  splicing aberrations and mutations have been linked to nervous system disorders
  including schizophrenia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, although these findings
  are not yet definitive.  View original pathway at [http://www.reactome.org/PathwayBrowser/#DIAGRAM=1236394
  Reactome].'
last-edited: 2021-01-25
organisms:
- Homo sapiens
redirect_from:
- /index.php/Pathway:WP2781
- /instance/WP2781
schema-jsonld:
- '@context': https://schema.org/
  '@id': https://wikipathways.github.io/pathways/WP2781.html
  '@type': Dataset
  creator:
    '@type': Organization
    name: WikiPathways
  description: 'ERBB4, also known as HER4, belongs to the ERBB family of receptors,
    which also includes ERBB1 (EGFR/HER1), ERBB2 (HER2/NEU) and ERBB3 (HER3). Similar
    to EGFR, ERBB4 has an extracellular ligand binding domain, a single transmembrane
    domain and a cytoplasmic domain which contains an active tyrosine kinase and a
    C-tail with multiple phosphorylation sites. At least three and possibly four splicing
    isoforms of ERBB4 exist that differ in their C-tail and/or the extracellular juxtamembrane
    regions: ERBB4 JM-A CYT1, ERBB4 JM-A CYT2 and ERBB4 JM-B CYT1 (the existence of
    ERBB4 JM-B CYT2 has not been confirmed). <br><br>ERBB4 becomes activated by binding
    one of its seven ligands, three of which, HB-EGF, epiregulin EPR and betacellulin
    BTC, are EGF-like (Elenius et al. 1997, Riese et al. 1998), while four, NRG1,
    NRG2, NRG3 and NRG4, belong to the related neuregulin family (Tzahar et al. 1994,
    Carraway et al. 1997, Zhang et al. 1997, Hayes et al. 2007). Upon ligand binding,
    ERBB4 forms homodimers (Sweeney et al. 2000) or it heterodimerizes with ERBB2
    (Li et al. 2007). Dimers of ERBB4 undergo trans-autophosphorylation on tyrosine
    residues in the C-tail (Cohen et al. 1996, Kaushansky et al. 2008, Hazan et al.
    1990, Li et al. 2007), triggering downstream signaling cascades. The pathway Signaling
    by ERBB4 only shows signaling by ERBB4 homodimers. Signaling by heterodimers of
    ERBB4 and ERBB2 is shown in the pathway Signaling by ERBB2. Ligand-stimulated
    ERBB4 is also able to form heterodimers with ligand-stimulated EGFR (Cohen et
    al. 1996) and ligand-stimulated ERBB3 (Riese et al. 1995). Dimers of ERBB4 with
    EGFR and dimers of ERBB4 with ERBB3 were demonstrated in mouse cell lines in which
    human ERBB4 and EGFR or ERBB3 were exogenously expressed. These heterodimers undergo
    trans-autophosphorylation. The promiscuous heteromerization of ERBBs adds combinatorial
    diversity to ERBB signaling processes. As ERBB4 binds more ligands than other
    ERBBs, but has restricted expression, ERBB4 expression channels responses to ERBB
    ligands. The signaling capabilities of the four receptors have been compared (Schulze
    et al. 2005).<br><br>As for other receptor tyrosine kinases, ERBB4 signaling effectors
    are largely dictated through binding of effector proteins to ERBB4 peptides that
    are phosphorylated upon ligand binding. All splicing isoforms of ERBB4 possess
    two tyrosine residues in the C-tail that serve as docking sites for SHC1 (Kaushansky
    et al. 2008, Pinkas-Kramarski et al. 1996, Cohen et al. 1996). Once bound to ERBB4,
    SHC1 becomes phosphorylated on tyrosine residues by the tyrosine kinase activity
    of ERBB4, which enables it to recruit the complex of GRB2 and SOS1, resulting
    in the guanyl-nucleotide exchange on RAS and activation of RAF and MAP kinase
    cascade (Kainulainen et al. 2000). <br><br>The CYT1 isoforms of ERBB4 also possess
    a C-tail tyrosine residue that, upon trans-autophosphorylation, serves as a docking
    site for the p85 alpha subunit of PI3K (Kaushansky et al. 2008, Cohen et al. 1996),
    leading to assembly of an active PI3K complex that converts PIP2 to PIP3 and activates
    AKT signaling (Kainulainen et al. 2000). <br><br>Besides signaling as a conventional
    transmembrane receptor kinase, ERBB4 differs from other ERBBs in that JM-A isoforms
    signal through efficient release of a soluble intracellular domain. Ligand activated
    homodimers of ERBB4 JM-A isoforms (ERBB4 JM-A CYT1 and ERBB4 JM-A CYT2) undergo
    proteolytic cleavage by ADAM17 (TACE) in the juxtamembrane region, resulting in
    shedding of the extracellular domain and formation of an 80 kDa membrane bound
    ERBB4 fragment known as ERBB4 m80 (Rio et al. 2000, Cheng et al. 2003). ERBB4
    m80 undergoes further proteolytic cleavage, mediated by the gamma-secretase complex,
    which releases the soluble 80 kDa ERBB4 intracellular domain, known as ERBB4 s80
    or E4ICD, into the cytosol (Ni et al. 2001). ERBB4 s80 is able to translocate
    to the nucleus, promote nuclear translocation of various transcription factors,
    and act as a transcription co-factor. For example, in mammary cells, ERBB4 binds
    SH2 transcription factor STAT5A. ERBB4 s80 shuttles STAT5A to the nucleus, and
    actsa as a STAT5A co-factor in binding to and promoting transcription from the
    beta-casein (CSN2) promoter, and may be involved in the regulation of other lactation-related
    genes (Jones et al. 1999, Williams et al. 2004, Muraoka-Cook et al. 2008). ERBB4
    s80 binds activated estrogen receptor in the nucleus and acts as a transcriptional
    co-factor in promoting transcription of some estrogen-regulated genes, including
    progesterone receptor gene NR3C3 and CXCL12 (SDF1) (Zhu et al. 2006). In neuronal
    precursors, ERBB4 s80 binds the complex of TAB and NCOR1, helps to move the complex
    into the nucleus, and is a co-factor of TAB:NCOR1-mediated inhibition of expression
    of astrocyte differentiation genes GFAP and S100B (Sardi et al. 2006).<br><br>The
    C-tail of ERBB4 possesses several WW-domain binding motifs (three in CYT1 isoform
    and two in CYT2 isoform), which enable interaction of ERBB4 with WW-domain containing
    proteins. ERBB4 s80, through WW-domain binding motifs, interacts with YAP1 transcription
    factor, a known proto-oncogene, and is a co-regulator of YAP1-mediated transcription
    in association with TEAD transcription factors (Komuro et al. 2003, Omerovic et
    al. 2004). Hence, the WW binding motif couples ERBB4 to the major effector arm
    of the HIPPO signaling pathway. The tumor suppressor WWOX, another WW-domain containing
    protein, competes with YAP1 in binding to ERBB4 s80 and prevents translocation
    of ERBB4 s80 to the nucleus (Aqeilan et al. 2005).<br><br>WW-domain binding motifs
    in the C-tail of ERBB4 play an important role in the downregulation of ERBB4 receptor
    signaling, enabling the interaction of intact ERBB4, ERBB4 m80 and ERBB4 s80 with
    NEDD4 family of E3 ubiquitin ligases WWP1 and ITCH. The interaction of WWP1 and
    ITCH with intact ERBB4 is independent of receptor activation and autophosphorylation.
    Binding of WWP1 and ITCH ubiquitin ligases leads to ubiquitination of ERBB4 and
    its cleavage products, and subsequent degradation through both proteasomal and
    lysosomal routes (Omerovic et al. 2007, Feng et al. 2009). In addition, the s80
    cleavage product of ERBB4 JM-A CYT-1 isoform is the target of NEDD4 ubiquitin
    ligase. NEDD4 binds ERBB4 JM-A CYT-1 s80 (ERBB4jmAcyt1s80) through its PIK3R1
    interaction site and mediates ERBB4jmAcyt1s80 ubiquitination, thereby decreasing
    the amount of ERBB4jmAcyt1s80 that reaches the nucleus (Zeng et al. 2009).<br><br>ERBB4
    also binds the E3 ubiquitin ligase MDM2, and inhibitor of p53 (Arasada et al.
    2005). Other proteins that bind to ERBB4 intracellular domain have been identified
    by co-immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry (Gilmore-Hebert et al., 2010),
    and include transcriptional co-repressor TRIM28/KAP1, which promotes chromatin
    compaction. DNA damage signaling through ATM releases TRIM28-associated heterochromatinization.
    Interactions of ERBB4 with TRIM28 and MDM2 may be important for integration of
    growth factor responses and DNA damage responses.<br><br>In human breast cancer
    cell lines, ERBB4 activation enhances anchorage-independent colony formation in
    soft agar but inhibits cell growth in a monolayer culture. Different ERBB4 ligands
    induce different gene expression changes in breast cancer cell lines. Some of
    the genes induced in response to ERBB4 signaling in breast cancer cell lines are
    RAB2, EPS15R and GATA4. It is not known if these gene are direct transcriptional
    targets of ERBB4 (Amin et al. 2004).<br><br>Transcriptome and ChIP-seq comparisons
    of full-length and intracellular domain isoforms in isogenic MCF10A mammary cell
    background have revealed the diversification of ERBB4 signaling engendered by
    alternative splicing and cleavage (Wali et al., 2014). ERBB4 broadly affected
    protease expression, cholesterol biosynthesis, HIF1-alpha signaling, and HIPPO
    signaling pathways, and other pathways were differentially activated by CYT1 and
    CYT2 isoforms. For example, CYT1 promoted expression of transcription factors
    TWIST1 and SNAIL1 that promote epithelial-mesenchymal transition. HIF1-alpha and
    HIPPO signaling are mediated, respectively, by binding of ERBB4 to HIF1-alpha
    and to YAP (Paatero et al., 2012, Komuro et al., 2003). ERBB4 increases activity
    of the transcription factor SREBF2, resulting in increased expression of SREBF2-target
    genes involved in cholesterol biosynthesis. The mechanism is not known and may
    involve facilitation of SREBF2 cleavage through ERBB4-mediated PI3K signaling
    (Haskins et al. 2016).<br><br>In some contexts, ERBB4 promotes growth suppression
    or apoptosis (Penington et al., 2002). Activation of ERBB4 in breast cancer cell
    lines leads to JNK dependent increase in BRCA1 mRNA level and mitotic cell cycle
    delay, but the exact mechanism has not been elucidated (Muraoka Cook et al. 2006).
    The nature of growth responses may be connected with the spliced isoforms expressed.
    In comparisons of CYT1 vs CYT2 (full-length and ICD) expression in mammary cells,
    CYT1 was a weaker growth inducer, associated with attenuated MAPK signaling relative
    to CYT2 (Wali et al., 2014). ERBB4 s80 is also able to translocate to the mitochondrial
    matrix, presumably when its nuclear translocation is inhibited. Once in the mitochondrion,
    the BH3 domain of ERBB4, characteristic of BCL2 family members, may enable it
    to act as a pro apoptotic factor (Naresh et al. 2006).<br><br>ERBB4 plays important
    roles in the developing and adult nervous system. Erbb4 deficiency in somatostatin-expressing
    neurons of the thalamic reticular nucleus alters behaviors dependent on sensory
    selection (Ahrens et al. 2015). NRG1-activated ERBB4 signaling enhances AMPA receptor
    responses through PKC-dependent AMPA receptor exocytosis. This results in an increased
    excitatory input to parvalbumin-expressing inhibitory neurons in the visual cortex
    and regulates visual cortical plasticity (Sun et al. 2016). NRG1-activated ERBB4
    signaling is involved in GABAergic activity in amygdala which mediates fear conditioning
    (fear memory) (Lu et al. 2014). Conditional Erbb4 deletion from fast-spiking interneurons,
    chandelier and basket cells of the cerebral cortex leads to synaptic defects associated
    with increased locomotor activity and abnormal emotional, social and cognitive
    function that can be linked to some of the schizophrenia features. The level of
    GAD1 (GAD67) protein is reduced in the cortex of conditional Erbb4 mutants. GAD1
    is a GABA synthesizing enzyme. Cortical mRNA levels of GAD67 are consistently
    decreased in schizophrenia (Del Pino et al. 2014). Erbb4 is expressed in the GABAergic
    neurons of the bed nucleus stria terminalis, a part of the extended amygdala.
    Inhibition of NRG1-triggered ERBB4 signaling induces anxiety-like behavior, which
    depends on GABAergic neurotransmission. NRG1-ERBB4 signaling stimulates presynaptic
    GABA release, but the exact mechanism is not known (Geng et al. 2016). NRG1 protects
    cortical interneurons against ischemic brain injury through ERBB4-mediated increase
    in GABAergic transmission (Guan et al. 2015). NRG2-activated ERBB4 can reduce
    the duration of GABAergic transmission by binding to GABA receptors at the postsynaptic
    membrane via their GABRA1 subunit and promoting endocytosis of GABA receptors
    (Mitchell et al. 2013). NRG1 promotes synchronization of prefrontal cortex interneurons
    in an ERBB4 dependent manner (Hou et al. 2014). NRG1-ERBB4 signaling protects
    neurons from the cell death induced by a mutant form of the amyloid precursor
    protein (APP) (Woo et al. 2012).<br><br>Clinical relevance of ERBB4 has been identified
    in several contexts. In cancer, putative and validated gain-of-function mutations
    or gene amplification that may be drivers have been identified at modest frequencies,
    and may also contribute to resistance to EGFR and ERBB2-targeted therapies. This
    is noteworthy as ERBB4 kinase activity is inhibited by pan-ERBB tyrosine kinase
    inhibitors, including lapatinib, which is approved by the US FDA. The reduced
    prevalence relative to EGFR and ERBB2 in cancer may reflect more restricted expression
    of ERBB4, or differential signaling, as specific ERBB4 isoforms have been linked
    to growth inhibition or apoptosis in experimental systems. ERBB2/ERBB4 heterodimers
    protect cardiomyocytes, so reduced activity of ERBB4 in patients treated with
    the ERBB2-targeted therapeutic antibody trastuzumab may contribute to the cardiotoxicity
    of this agent when used in combination with (cardiotoxic) anthracyclines.<br><br>With
    the importance of ERBB4 in developing and adult nervous system, NRG1 and/or ERBB4
    polymorphisms, splicing aberrations and mutations have been linked to nervous
    system disorders including schizophrenia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, although
    these findings are not yet definitive.  View original pathway at [http://www.reactome.org/PathwayBrowser/#DIAGRAM=1236394
    Reactome].'
  keywords:
  - TAB2:NCOR1
  - heterodimer
  - 'GABA '
  - 'ERBB3-1 '
  - ADP
  - 'ADAP1 gene '
  - ERBB4:ERBB3
  - ERBB4:DLG4
  - p-ERBB4cyt1
  - SHC1
  - signaling
  - ligands
  - SPARC
  - ESR1:ESTG
  - p21 RAS:GTP
  - ERBB4s80:WWOX
  - 'GABRB3 '
  - PI(4,5)P2
  - homodimers
  - APOE gene
  - 'UBA52(1-76) '
  - ERBB4
  - 'S-Farn-Me KRAS4B '
  - gamma-secretase
  - 'PSENEN '
  - 'PSEN2(298-448) '
  - CSN2 gene
  - PI(3,4,5)P3
  - ERBB4s80:ESR1:estrogen:PGR gene
  - 'p-ERBB4cyt1 homodimers '
  - 'Neuregulins '
  - 'p-Y1172,Y1226-ERBB4 JM-A CYT-2 isoform '
  - 'UBC(305-380) '
  - 'ERBB4 JM-A CYT-2 isoform '
  - SPARC gene
  - ERBB4s80:TAB2:NCOR1
  - gene expression
  - ERBB4s80:APOE gene
  - 'S-Farn-Me-PalmS KRAS4A '
  - RAF/MAP kinase
  - 'UBC(609-684) '
  - Ub
  - ERBB4s80:SPARC gene
  - ERBB4jmAcyt1s80:MXD4
  - 'Zn2+ '
  - 'ITCH '
  - Signaling by Hippo
  - ERBB4s80:ESR1:estrogen:ERBB4 gene
  - 'NRG1 '
  - 'WWP1 '
  - 'GABRQ '
  - ERBB4s80:YAP1
  - 'UBC(381-456) '
  - SHC1:p-ERBB4
  - ERBB4s80:p-Y694-STAT5A
  - CXCL12 gene
  - ERBB4jmAcyt1s80
  - ERBB4 gene
  - CXCL12(22-93)
  - 'GTP '
  - 'GABRB1 '
  - MyrG-p-Y419-SRC
  - 'UBB(153-228) '
  - 'UBC(1-76) '
  - 'ERBB4jmAcyt1ECD '
  - 'WWOX '
  - 'NRG2:p-ERBB4cyt1 homodimers '
  - 'ERBB4jmAcyt2m80 '
  - 'ERBB4cyt1 homodimers '
  - ERBB4:EGFR
  - GFAP
  - Ub-ERBB4:WWP1/ITCH
  - ERBB4/ERBB4m80/ERBB4s80
  - 'ERBB4 '
  - ERBB4s80:p-Y694-STAT5A:CSN2 gene
  - 'NCOR1 '
  - ATP
  - p-Y694-STAT5A
  - 'ERBB4 gene '
  - 'ERBB4jmAcyt2ECD '
  - 'GABRA1 '
  - p-ERBB4 homodimers
  - 'p-Y694-STAT5A '
  - 'S100B gene '
  - ERBB4m80
  - dimer
  - 'UBC(457-532) '
  - ADAP1 gene
  - PGR
  - 'p-Y349,Y350-SHC1 '
  - p21 RAS:GDP
  - ERBB4s80
  - 'PIK3CA '
  - 'p-Y1056,Y1188,Y1242-ERBB4 JM-A CYT-1 isoform '
  - ERBB4s80:TAB2:NCOR1:S100B gene
  - 'UBC(229-304) '
  - ERBB4s80:ESR1:estrogen:CXCL12 gene
  - ERBB4 homodimers
  - 'SHC1 '
  - 'APH1B '
  - YAP1- and WWTR1
  - 'p-Y1046,Y1178,Y1232-ERBB4 JM-B CYT-1 isoform '
  - ERBB4s80:ESR1:estrogen
  - Ub-ERBB4jmAcyt1s80:NEDD4
  - 'MXD4 gene '
  - homodimers:GABRA1
  - cascade
  - PGR gene
  - 'GDP '
  - ERBB4s80:ADAP1 gene
  - 'UBC(533-608) '
  - 'PIK3R1 '
  - ERBB4jmAcyt1s80:NEDD4
  - 'MyrG-p-Y419-SRC '
  - NEDD4
  - 'ERBB4 JM-B CYT-1 isoform '
  - 'EGFR '
  - 'S-Farn-Me-2xPalmS HRAS '
  - ADAP1
  - 'PSEN1(1-298) '
  - 'UBC(77-152) '
  - YAP1
  - 'UBC(153-228) '
  - GFAP gene
  - receptors and
  - 'CSN2 gene '
  - 'ERBB4 CYT-1 isoforms '
  - ERBB4s80:MyrG-p-Y419-SRC
  - 'GABRG2 '
  - 'SPARC gene '
  - 'PSEN2(1-297) '
  - 'APOE gene '
  - 'GRB2-1 '
  - ERBB4_ECD
  - 'ERBB4jmAcyt1m80 '
  - 'CXCL12 gene '
  - 'YAP1 '
  - GTP
  - PIK3CA:PIK3R1
  - GABRA1
  - PI3K:p-ERBB4cyt1
  - p-ERBB4 JM-A
  - 'ERBB4s80 '
  - Activation of NMDA
  - EGF:EGFR
  - DLG4
  - 'PGR gene '
  - 'ERBB4jmAcyt2s80 '
  - S100B
  - GRB2-1:SOS1
  - 'UBB(1-76) '
  - NRG1/2:ERBB3
  - p-Y349,350-SHC1:p-ERBB4
  - gene
  - ERBB4s80:STMN1 gene
  - heteropentamers:GABA
  - 'DLG4 '
  - MXD4
  - ligands:ERBB4
  - S100B gene
  - 'PSEN1(299-467) '
  - ERBB4/m80/s80:WWP1/ITCH
  - NRGs/EGF-like
  - GRB2:SOS1:p-Y349,350-SHC1:p-ERBB4
  - 'TAB2 '
  - 'RPS27A(1-76) '
  - homodimer
  - MXD4 gene
  - ADAM17
  - 'EGF-like ligands '
  - 'GFAP gene '
  - 'UBB(77-152) '
  - 'ADAM17 '
  - WWP1/ITCH
  - PIP3 activates AKT
  - CSN2
  - WWOX
  - 'NRG2 '
  - 'STMN1 gene '
  - STMN1
  - 'NEDD4 '
  - postsynaptic events
  - 'SOS1 '
  - 'ESTG '
  - 'S-Farn-Me PalmS NRAS '
  - 'APH1A '
  - GDP
  - 'NCSTN '
  - Prolactin receptor
  - APOE
  - complex
  - 'ERBB4 JM-A CYT-1 isoform '
  - 'EGF '
  - NRG2:p-ERBB4
  - 'ESR1 '
  - (TAZ)-stimulated
  - 'GABRG3 '
  - STMN1 gene
  - ERBB4s80:TAB2:NCOR1:GFAP gene
  - 'GABRB2 '
  - 'ERBB4jmAcyt1s80 '
  - 'ERBB4m80 '
  license: CC0
  name: Signaling by ERBB4
seo: CreativeWork
title: Signaling by ERBB4
wpid: WP2781
---