---
annotations:
- type: Pathway Ontology
  value: regulatory pathway
authors:
- ReactomeTeam
- Ryanmiller
description: Macroautophagy (hereafter referred to as autophagy) acts as a buffer
  against starvation by liberating building materials and energy sources from cellular
  components. It has additional roles in embryonic development, removal of apoptotic
  cells or organelles, antigen presentation, protection against toxins and as a degradation
  route for aggregate-prone proteins and infectious agents. The dysregulation of autophagy
  is involved in several human diseases, for example, Crohn's disease, cancer and
  neurodegeneration (Ravikumar et al. 2010).<br>Autophagy is highly conserved from
  yeast to humans; much of the machinery was first identified in yeast (see Klionsky
  et al. 2011). Initially, double-membraned cup-shaped structures called the isolation
  membrane or phagophore engulf portions of cytoplasm. The membranes fuse to form
  the autophagosome. In yeast cells, autophagosomes are formed at the phagophore assembly
  site (PAS) next to the vacuole. In mammals, autophagosomes appear throughout the
  cytoplasm then move along microtubules towards the microtubule-organising centre.
  This transport requires microtubules and the function of dynein motor proteins;
  depolymerization of microtubules or inhibition of dynein-dependent transport results
  in inhibition of autophagy (Kochl et al. 2006, Kimura et al. 2008). Autophagosomes
  fuse with lysosomes forming autolysosomes whose contents are degraded by lysosomal
  hydrolases (Mizushima et al. 2011).<br><br>The origins of the autophagosomal membrane
  and the  incorporation of existing membrane material have been extensively debated.
  The endoplasmic reticulum (ER), mitochondria, mitochondria-associated ER membranes
  (MAMs), the Golgi, the plasma membrane and recycling endosomes have all been implicated
  in the nucleation of the isolation membrane and subsequent growth of the membrane
  (Lamb et al. 2013). Recently 3D tomographic imaging of isolation membranes has shown
  the cup-shaped isolation membrane tightly sandwiched between two sheets of ER and
  physically connected to the ER through a narrow membrane tube (Hayashi-Nishino et
  al. 2009, Yla-Anttila et al. 2009). This suggests that isolation membrane formation
  and elongation are guided by adjacent ER sheets, supporting the now prevalent 'ER
  cradle' model, which suggests that the isolation membrane arises from the ER (Hayashi-Nishino
  et al. 2009, Shibutani & Yoshimori 2014).<br><br>Autophagy is tightly regulated.
  The induction of autophagy in response to starvation is partly mediated by inactivation
  of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) (Noda & Ohsumi 1998) and activation
  of Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), while energy loss induces autophagy by activation
  of AMP kinase (AMPK). Other pathways regulating autophagy are regulated by calcium,
  cyclic AMP, calpains and the inositol trisphosphate (IP3) receptor (Rubinsztein
  et al. 2012). <br><br>In mammals, two complexes cooperatively produce the isolation
  membrane. The ULK complex consists of ULK1/2, ATG13, (FIP200) and ATG101 (Alers
  et al. 2012). The PIK3C3-containing Beclin-1 complex consists of PIK3C3 (Vps34),
  BECN1 (Beclin-1, Atg6), PIK3R4 (p150, Vps15) and ATG14 (Barkor) (Matsunaga et al.
  2009, Zhong et al. 2009). A similar complex where ATG14 is replaced by UVRAG functions
  later in autophagosome maturation and endocytic traffic (Itakura et al. 2008, Liang
  et al. 2008). Binding of KIAA0226 to this complex negatively regulates the maturation
  process (Matsunaga et al. 2009). The ULK and Beclin-1 complexes are recruited to
  specific autophagosome nucleation regions where they stimulate phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate
  (PI3P) production and facilitate the elongation and initial membrane curvature of
  the phagophore membrane (Carlsson & Simonsen 2015).<br><br>The ULK complex is considered
  the most upstream component of the mammalian autophagy pathway (Itakura & Mizushima
  2010), acting as an integrator of the autophagy signals downstream of mTORC1. It
  is not fully understood how ULK1 is modulated in response to environmental cues.
  Phosphorylation plays an essential role (Dunlop & Tee 2013) but it is not clear
  how phosphorylation regulates ULK1 activities (Ravikumar et al. 2010). ULK1 kinase
  activity is required for autophagy, but the substrate(s) of ULK1 that mediate its
  autophagic function are not certain. ULK1 may also have kinase-independent functions
  in autophagy (Wong et al. 2013). <br><br> PIK3C3 (Vps34) is a class III phosphatidylinositol
  3-kinase that produces PI3P. It is essential for the early stages of autophagy and
  colocalizes strongly with early autophagosome markers (Axe et al. 2008). BECN1 binds
  several further proteins that affect autophagosome formation. Partners that induce
  autophagy include AMBRA1 (Fimia et al. 2007), UVRAG (Liang et al. 2006) and SH3GLB1
  (Takahashi et al. 2007). Binding of BCL2 or BCL2L1 (Bcl-xL) inhibit autophagy (Pattingre
  et al. 2005, Ciechomska et al. 2009). The inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor
  complex that binds BCL2 also interacts with BECN1, inhibiting autophagy (Vincencio
  et al. 2009). CISD2 (Nutrient-deprivation autophagy factor-1, NAF1), a component
  in the IP3R complex, interacts with BCL2 at the ER and stabilizes the BCL2-BECN1
  interaction (Chang et al. 2010). Starvation leads to activation of c-Jun NH2-terminal
  kinase-1 (JNK1), which results in the phosphorylation of BCL2 and BCL2L1, which
  release their binding to BECN1 and thus induces autophagosome formation (Wei et
  al. 2008). <br><br>AMBRA1 can simultaneously bind dynein and the Beclin-1 complex.  During
  nutrient starvation, AMBRA1 is phosphorylated in a ULK1-dependent manner (Di Bartolomeo
  et al. 2010). This phosphorylation releases AMBRA1-associated Beclin-1 complexes
  from dynein and the microtubule network, freeing the complex to translocate to autophagy
  initiation sites (Di Bartolomeo et al. 2010). <br><br>A characteristic of this early
  phase of autophagosome formation is the formation of PI3P-enriched ER-associated
  structures called omegasomes (Axe et al. 2008) or cradles (Hayashi-Nishino et al.
  2009). Omegasomes appear to concentrate at or near the connected mitochondria-associated
  ER membrane (Hamasaki et al. 2013). However, the phagophore also can incorporate
  existing material from other membrane sources such as ER exit sites (ERES), the
  ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), the Golgi, the plasma membrane and recycling
  endosomes (Carlsson & Simonsen 2015). Omegasomes lead to the formation of the isolation
  membrane or phagophore, which is thought to form de novo by an unknown mechanism
  (Simonsen & Stenmark 2008, Roberts & Ktistakis 2013). Phagophore expansion is probably
  mediated by membrane uptake from endomembranes and semi-autonomous organelles (Lamb
  et al. 2013, Shibutani & Yoshimori 2014).<br><br>ATG9 is a direct target of ULK1.
  In nutrient-rich conditions mammalian ATG9 is localized to the trans-Golgi network
  and endosomes (including early, late and recycling endosomes), whereas under starvation
  conditions it is localized to autophagosomes, in a process that is dependent on
  ULK1 (Young et al. 2006). ATG9 is believed to play a role in the delivery of vesicles
  derived from existing membranes to the expanding phagophore (Lamb et al. 2013).
  Yeast Atg9 forms a complex with Atg2 and Atg18 (Reggiori et al. 2004). <br><br>PI3P
  produced at the initiation site is sensed by WIPI2b, the mammalian homologue of
  Atg18 (Polson et al. 2010). WIPI2b then recruits Atg16L1 (Dooley et al. 2014). There
  are four WIPI proteins in mammalian cells (Proikas-Cezanne et al. 2015). They are
  all likely bind PI3P and be recruited to membranes but the function of WIPI1, 3
  and 4 in autophagy is not yet clear. WIPI4 (WDR45) has been shown to bind Atg2 and
  to be involved in lipid droplet formation (Velikkakath et al. 2012); mutations in
  WIPI4 have been shown to cause a neurodegenerative disease (Saitsu et al. 2013).<br><br>The
  elongation of the membrane that will become the autophagosome is regulated by two
  ubiquitination-like reactions. First, the ubiquitin-like molecule ATG12 is conjugated
  to ATG5 by ATG7, which acts as an E1-like activating enzyme, and ATG10, which has
  a role similar to an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme. The ATG5:ATG12 complex then
  interacts non-covalently with ATG16L1. This complex associates with the forming
  autophagosome but dissociates from completed autophagosomes (Geng & Klionski 2008).
  The second ubiquitin-like reaction involves the conjugation of ubiquitin-like molecules
  of the LC3 family (Weidberg et al. 2010). LC3 proteins are conjugated through their
  C-terminal glycine residues with PE by the E1-like ATG7 and E2-like ATG3. This allows
  LC3 proteins to associate with the autophagosome membrane. <br><br>The ATG12:ATG5:ATG16L1
  complex (Mizushima et al., 2011) acts as an E3 like enzyme for the conjugation of
  LC3 family proteins (mammalian homologues of yeast Atg8) to phosphatidylethanolamine
  (PE) (Hanada et al. 2007, Fujita et al. 2008). LC3 PE can be deconjugated by the
  protease ATG4 (Li et al. 2011, 2012). ATG4 is also responsible for priming LC3 proteins
  by cleaving the C terminus to expose a glycine residue (Kirisako et al, 2000, Scherz
  Shouval et al. 2007). LC3 proteins remain associated with autophagosomes until they
  fuse with lysosomes. The LC3-like proteins inside the resulting autolysosomes are
  degraded, while those on the cytoplasmic surface are delipidated and recycled. ATG5:ATG12:ATG16L1-positive
  LC3-negative vesicles represent pre-autophagosomal structures (pre-phagophores and
  possibly early phagophores), ATG5:ATG12:ATG16L1-positive LC3-positive structures
  can be considered to be phagophores, and ATG5:ATG12:ATG16L1-negative LC3-positive
  vesicles can be regarded as mature autophagosomes (Tandia et al. 2011).<br><br>Phagophore
  expansion is probably mediated by membrane uptake from endomembranes as well as
  from semiautonomous organelles (Lamb et al. 2013, Shibutani & Yoshimori 2014).<br><br>The
  mechanisms involved in the closure of the phagophore membrane are poorly understood.
  As the phagophore is a double-membraned structure, its closure involves the fusion
  of a narrow opening, a process that is distinct from other membrane fusion events
  (Carlsson & Simonsen 2015). The topology of the phagophore is similar to that of
  cytokinesis, viral budding or multivesicular body (MVB) formation. These processes
  rely on the Endosomal Sorting Complex Required for Transport (ESCRT) (Rusten et
  al. 2012). ESCRT and associated proteins facilitate membrane budding away from the
  cytosol and subsequent cleavage of the bud neck (Hurley & Hanson 2010). Several
  studies have shown that depletion of ESCRT subunits or the regulatory ATPase Vps4
  causes an accumulation of autophagosomes (Filimonenko et al. 2007, Rusten et al.
  2007) but it is not clear whether ESCRTs are required for autophagosome closure
  or for autophagosome to endosome fusion. UVRAG is also involved in the maturation
  step, recruiting proteins that bring about membrane fusion such as the class C Vps
  proteins, which activate Rab7 thereby promoting fusion with late endosomes and lysosomes
  (Liang et al. 2008).  View original pathway at [http://www.reactome.org/PathwayBrowser/#DIAGRAM=1632852
  Reactome].
last-edited: 2021-01-25
organisms:
- Homo sapiens
redirect_from:
- /index.php/Pathway:WP3348
- /instance/WP3348
schema-jsonld:
- '@context': https://schema.org/
  '@id': https://wikipathways.github.io/pathways/WP3348.html
  '@type': Dataset
  creator:
    '@type': Organization
    name: WikiPathways
  description: Macroautophagy (hereafter referred to as autophagy) acts as a buffer
    against starvation by liberating building materials and energy sources from cellular
    components. It has additional roles in embryonic development, removal of apoptotic
    cells or organelles, antigen presentation, protection against toxins and as a
    degradation route for aggregate-prone proteins and infectious agents. The dysregulation
    of autophagy is involved in several human diseases, for example, Crohn's disease,
    cancer and neurodegeneration (Ravikumar et al. 2010).<br>Autophagy is highly conserved
    from yeast to humans; much of the machinery was first identified in yeast (see
    Klionsky et al. 2011). Initially, double-membraned cup-shaped structures called
    the isolation membrane or phagophore engulf portions of cytoplasm. The membranes
    fuse to form the autophagosome. In yeast cells, autophagosomes are formed at the
    phagophore assembly site (PAS) next to the vacuole. In mammals, autophagosomes
    appear throughout the cytoplasm then move along microtubules towards the microtubule-organising
    centre. This transport requires microtubules and the function of dynein motor
    proteins; depolymerization of microtubules or inhibition of dynein-dependent transport
    results in inhibition of autophagy (Kochl et al. 2006, Kimura et al. 2008). Autophagosomes
    fuse with lysosomes forming autolysosomes whose contents are degraded by lysosomal
    hydrolases (Mizushima et al. 2011).<br><br>The origins of the autophagosomal membrane
    and the  incorporation of existing membrane material have been extensively debated.
    The endoplasmic reticulum (ER), mitochondria, mitochondria-associated ER membranes
    (MAMs), the Golgi, the plasma membrane and recycling endosomes have all been implicated
    in the nucleation of the isolation membrane and subsequent growth of the membrane
    (Lamb et al. 2013). Recently 3D tomographic imaging of isolation membranes has
    shown the cup-shaped isolation membrane tightly sandwiched between two sheets
    of ER and physically connected to the ER through a narrow membrane tube (Hayashi-Nishino
    et al. 2009, Yla-Anttila et al. 2009). This suggests that isolation membrane formation
    and elongation are guided by adjacent ER sheets, supporting the now prevalent
    'ER cradle' model, which suggests that the isolation membrane arises from the
    ER (Hayashi-Nishino et al. 2009, Shibutani & Yoshimori 2014).<br><br>Autophagy
    is tightly regulated. The induction of autophagy in response to starvation is
    partly mediated by inactivation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) (Noda
    & Ohsumi 1998) and activation of Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), while energy loss
    induces autophagy by activation of AMP kinase (AMPK). Other pathways regulating
    autophagy are regulated by calcium, cyclic AMP, calpains and the inositol trisphosphate
    (IP3) receptor (Rubinsztein et al. 2012). <br><br>In mammals, two complexes cooperatively
    produce the isolation membrane. The ULK complex consists of ULK1/2, ATG13, (FIP200)
    and ATG101 (Alers et al. 2012). The PIK3C3-containing Beclin-1 complex consists
    of PIK3C3 (Vps34), BECN1 (Beclin-1, Atg6), PIK3R4 (p150, Vps15) and ATG14 (Barkor)
    (Matsunaga et al. 2009, Zhong et al. 2009). A similar complex where ATG14 is replaced
    by UVRAG functions later in autophagosome maturation and endocytic traffic (Itakura
    et al. 2008, Liang et al. 2008). Binding of KIAA0226 to this complex negatively
    regulates the maturation process (Matsunaga et al. 2009). The ULK and Beclin-1
    complexes are recruited to specific autophagosome nucleation regions where they
    stimulate phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate (PI3P) production and facilitate the
    elongation and initial membrane curvature of the phagophore membrane (Carlsson
    & Simonsen 2015).<br><br>The ULK complex is considered the most upstream component
    of the mammalian autophagy pathway (Itakura & Mizushima 2010), acting as an integrator
    of the autophagy signals downstream of mTORC1. It is not fully understood how
    ULK1 is modulated in response to environmental cues. Phosphorylation plays an
    essential role (Dunlop & Tee 2013) but it is not clear how phosphorylation regulates
    ULK1 activities (Ravikumar et al. 2010). ULK1 kinase activity is required for
    autophagy, but the substrate(s) of ULK1 that mediate its autophagic function are
    not certain. ULK1 may also have kinase-independent functions in autophagy (Wong
    et al. 2013). <br><br> PIK3C3 (Vps34) is a class III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase
    that produces PI3P. It is essential for the early stages of autophagy and colocalizes
    strongly with early autophagosome markers (Axe et al. 2008). BECN1 binds several
    further proteins that affect autophagosome formation. Partners that induce autophagy
    include AMBRA1 (Fimia et al. 2007), UVRAG (Liang et al. 2006) and SH3GLB1 (Takahashi
    et al. 2007). Binding of BCL2 or BCL2L1 (Bcl-xL) inhibit autophagy (Pattingre
    et al. 2005, Ciechomska et al. 2009). The inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor
    complex that binds BCL2 also interacts with BECN1, inhibiting autophagy (Vincencio
    et al. 2009). CISD2 (Nutrient-deprivation autophagy factor-1, NAF1), a component
    in the IP3R complex, interacts with BCL2 at the ER and stabilizes the BCL2-BECN1
    interaction (Chang et al. 2010). Starvation leads to activation of c-Jun NH2-terminal
    kinase-1 (JNK1), which results in the phosphorylation of BCL2 and BCL2L1, which
    release their binding to BECN1 and thus induces autophagosome formation (Wei et
    al. 2008). <br><br>AMBRA1 can simultaneously bind dynein and the Beclin-1 complex.  During
    nutrient starvation, AMBRA1 is phosphorylated in a ULK1-dependent manner (Di Bartolomeo
    et al. 2010). This phosphorylation releases AMBRA1-associated Beclin-1 complexes
    from dynein and the microtubule network, freeing the complex to translocate to
    autophagy initiation sites (Di Bartolomeo et al. 2010). <br><br>A characteristic
    of this early phase of autophagosome formation is the formation of PI3P-enriched
    ER-associated structures called omegasomes (Axe et al. 2008) or cradles (Hayashi-Nishino
    et al. 2009). Omegasomes appear to concentrate at or near the connected mitochondria-associated
    ER membrane (Hamasaki et al. 2013). However, the phagophore also can incorporate
    existing material from other membrane sources such as ER exit sites (ERES), the
    ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), the Golgi, the plasma membrane and
    recycling endosomes (Carlsson & Simonsen 2015). Omegasomes lead to the formation
    of the isolation membrane or phagophore, which is thought to form de novo by an
    unknown mechanism (Simonsen & Stenmark 2008, Roberts & Ktistakis 2013). Phagophore
    expansion is probably mediated by membrane uptake from endomembranes and semi-autonomous
    organelles (Lamb et al. 2013, Shibutani & Yoshimori 2014).<br><br>ATG9 is a direct
    target of ULK1. In nutrient-rich conditions mammalian ATG9 is localized to the
    trans-Golgi network and endosomes (including early, late and recycling endosomes),
    whereas under starvation conditions it is localized to autophagosomes, in a process
    that is dependent on ULK1 (Young et al. 2006). ATG9 is believed to play a role
    in the delivery of vesicles derived from existing membranes to the expanding phagophore
    (Lamb et al. 2013). Yeast Atg9 forms a complex with Atg2 and Atg18 (Reggiori et
    al. 2004). <br><br>PI3P produced at the initiation site is sensed by WIPI2b, the
    mammalian homologue of Atg18 (Polson et al. 2010). WIPI2b then recruits Atg16L1
    (Dooley et al. 2014). There are four WIPI proteins in mammalian cells (Proikas-Cezanne
    et al. 2015). They are all likely bind PI3P and be recruited to membranes but
    the function of WIPI1, 3 and 4 in autophagy is not yet clear. WIPI4 (WDR45) has
    been shown to bind Atg2 and to be involved in lipid droplet formation (Velikkakath
    et al. 2012); mutations in WIPI4 have been shown to cause a neurodegenerative
    disease (Saitsu et al. 2013).<br><br>The elongation of the membrane that will
    become the autophagosome is regulated by two ubiquitination-like reactions. First,
    the ubiquitin-like molecule ATG12 is conjugated to ATG5 by ATG7, which acts as
    an E1-like activating enzyme, and ATG10, which has a role similar to an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating
    enzyme. The ATG5:ATG12 complex then interacts non-covalently with ATG16L1. This
    complex associates with the forming autophagosome but dissociates from completed
    autophagosomes (Geng & Klionski 2008). The second ubiquitin-like reaction involves
    the conjugation of ubiquitin-like molecules of the LC3 family (Weidberg et al.
    2010). LC3 proteins are conjugated through their C-terminal glycine residues with
    PE by the E1-like ATG7 and E2-like ATG3. This allows LC3 proteins to associate
    with the autophagosome membrane. <br><br>The ATG12:ATG5:ATG16L1 complex (Mizushima
    et al., 2011) acts as an E3 like enzyme for the conjugation of LC3 family proteins
    (mammalian homologues of yeast Atg8) to phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) (Hanada
    et al. 2007, Fujita et al. 2008). LC3 PE can be deconjugated by the protease ATG4
    (Li et al. 2011, 2012). ATG4 is also responsible for priming LC3 proteins by cleaving
    the C terminus to expose a glycine residue (Kirisako et al, 2000, Scherz Shouval
    et al. 2007). LC3 proteins remain associated with autophagosomes until they fuse
    with lysosomes. The LC3-like proteins inside the resulting autolysosomes are degraded,
    while those on the cytoplasmic surface are delipidated and recycled. ATG5:ATG12:ATG16L1-positive
    LC3-negative vesicles represent pre-autophagosomal structures (pre-phagophores
    and possibly early phagophores), ATG5:ATG12:ATG16L1-positive LC3-positive structures
    can be considered to be phagophores, and ATG5:ATG12:ATG16L1-negative LC3-positive
    vesicles can be regarded as mature autophagosomes (Tandia et al. 2011).<br><br>Phagophore
    expansion is probably mediated by membrane uptake from endomembranes as well as
    from semiautonomous organelles (Lamb et al. 2013, Shibutani & Yoshimori 2014).<br><br>The
    mechanisms involved in the closure of the phagophore membrane are poorly understood.
    As the phagophore is a double-membraned structure, its closure involves the fusion
    of a narrow opening, a process that is distinct from other membrane fusion events
    (Carlsson & Simonsen 2015). The topology of the phagophore is similar to that
    of cytokinesis, viral budding or multivesicular body (MVB) formation. These processes
    rely on the Endosomal Sorting Complex Required for Transport (ESCRT) (Rusten et
    al. 2012). ESCRT and associated proteins facilitate membrane budding away from
    the cytosol and subsequent cleavage of the bud neck (Hurley & Hanson 2010). Several
    studies have shown that depletion of ESCRT subunits or the regulatory ATPase Vps4
    causes an accumulation of autophagosomes (Filimonenko et al. 2007, Rusten et al.
    2007) but it is not clear whether ESCRTs are required for autophagosome closure
    or for autophagosome to endosome fusion. UVRAG is also involved in the maturation
    step, recruiting proteins that bring about membrane fusion such as the class C
    Vps proteins, which activate Rab7 thereby promoting fusion with late endosomes
    and lysosomes (Liang et al. 2008).  View original pathway at [http://www.reactome.org/PathwayBrowser/#DIAGRAM=1632852
    Reactome].
  keywords:
  - 'RB1CC1 '
  - LC3 family
  - 'MAP1LC3C(1-147) '
  - 'MAP1LC3B(2-121) '
  - 'PI(3,5)P2 '
  - ATG10:GlyK130-ATG5:ATG12
  - 'CHMP3 '
  - 'UVRAG '
  - 'BECN1 '
  - heterotrimer:AMP
  - p-S722,S792-RPTOR:RHEB:GTP:p-S758-ULK1:ATG13:RB1CC1:ATG101
  - heterotrimer:AMP:p-S317,467,556,638,T575-ULK1:ATG13:RB1CC1:ATG101
  - PE
  - 'WIPI2 '
  - 'MAP1LC3A '
  - 'RRAGD '
  - BECN1
  - 'ATG3 '
  - 'GABARAPL1 '
  - 'p-RB1CC1 '
  - 'MAP1LC3B '
  - 'LAMTOR2 '
  - 'ATG9A '
  - 'PIK3R4 '
  - 'ATG5 '
  - 'CHMP2A '
  - 'p-S722,S792-RPTOR '
  - 'WDR45B '
  - 'MAP1LC3A(1-121) '
  - ATG12:ATG7:CysO572-ATG7:ATG10
  - ATG7 dimer
  - ATG10
  - LC3:CysO263-ATG3:ATG7 dimer
  - 'GlyK166-ATG10 '
  - 'p-S15-BECN1 '
  - LC3:CysO572-ATG7:ATG7:ATG3
  - 'RPTOR '
  - Pi
  - 'PRKAG2 '
  - 'CHMP4C '
  - 'ATG4A '
  - 'DYNLL1 '
  - ATG14:PIK3C3:PIK3R4:p-S15-BECN1
  - precursors
  - 'p-S1387-TSC2 '
  - WIPI1,WIPI2,(WDR45,WDR45B)
  - 'ATG13 '
  - 'MTMR3 '
  - 'ATG4C '
  - 'PE '
  - ULK1:ATG13:RB1CC1:ATG101
  - 'CHMP7 '
  - ATG12:GlyK166-ATG10:ATG5
  - ATG12
  - 'AMBRA1 '
  - 'RRAGA '
  - 'PI3P '
  - p-S722,S792-RPTOR:Ragulator:Rag:RHEB:GTP
  - 'ATG9B '
  - 'PRKAG3 '
  - Selective autophagy
  - 'ATG4B '
  - ATG12:GlyK166-ATG10
  - ATG12:ATG7 dimer
  - 'LAMTOR4 '
  - 'p-ATG13 '
  - 'GABARAPL2 '
  - 'CysO572-ATG7 '
  - 'SLC38A9 '
  - p-AMBRA1
  - ATG16L1 complex
  - 'CHMP4A '
  - 'ATG16L1 '
  - ADP
  - heterotrimer:AMP:ULK1:ATG13:RB1CC1:ATG101
  - LC3:CysO572-ATG7:ATG7
  - ATG7
  - 'CysO263-ATG3 '
  - 'ATG10 '
  - 'p-S758-ULK1 '
  - 'p-T180,S317,S467,S556,S638,T575-ULK1 '
  - LC3:PE
  - Beclin-1 complex
  - 'GDP '
  - MTORC1:Ragulator:Rag:GNP:RHEB:GDP
  - GlyK130-ATG5:ATG12
  - 'GABARAP '
  - complex:p-AMBRA1:DYNLL1,DYNLL2
  - dimer:GlyK166-ATG10:ATG12
  - WIPI2:PI(3,5)P2
  - 'CHMP6 '
  - 'GABARAP(1-117) '
  - 'LAMTOR1 '
  - 'MTMR14 '
  - 'GlyK130-ATG5 '
  - ATG3
  - 'PRKAB2 '
  - 'RRAGC '
  - BECN1 complex
  - UVRAG complex
  - 'PRKAG1 '
  - with
  - 'DYNLL2 '
  - 'p-T183-PRKAA1 '
  - ATG5
  - ATP
  - 'PIK3C3 '
  - MTORC1
  - heterotrimer:AMP:p-T180,S317,467,556,638,T575-ULK1:p-ATG13:p-RB1CC1:ATG101
  - 'ULK1 '
  - 'GABARAPL2(1-117) '
  - p-S758-ULK1:ATG13:RB1CC1:ATG101
  - 'p-AMBRA1 '
  - ESCRT-III
  - 'ATG14 '
  - AMBRA1:DYNLL1,DYNLL2
  - 'CHMP4B '
  - 'RRAGB '
  - 'LAMTOR5 '
  - 'ATG101 '
  - 'AMP '
  - DLCs
  - heterotrimer:AMP:p-T180,S317,467,556,638,T575-ULK1:ATG13:RB1CC1:ATG101
  - 'LAMTOR3 '
  - MTORC1:Ragulator:Rag:GNP:RHEB:GTP
  - 'ATG4D '
  - 'MTOR '
  - 'ATG12 '
  - ATG4
  - 'GTP '
  - 'p-S317,467,556,638,T575-ULK1 '
  - complex:WIPI2:PI(3,5)P2
  - AMBRA1
  - PI
  - PI3P
  - AMBRA1:DYNLL1,DYNLL2:BECN1 complex
  - MTORC1:RHEB:GTP:p-S758-ULK1:ATG13:RB1CC1:ATG101
  - 'GABARAPL3 '
  - ATG16L1
  - 'TSC1 '
  - 'PRKAB1 '
  - 'MLST8 '
  - 'RHEB '
  - MTORC1:RHEB:GTP:ULK1:ATG13:RB1CC1:ATG101
  - 'GABARAPL3(1-117) '
  - ATG12:ATG7:CysO572-ATG7
  - CysO263-ATG3:LC3
  - 'CHMP2B '
  - ATG9A,(ATG9B)
  - 'p-T172-PRKAA2 '
  - 'WIPI1 '
  - 'ATG7 '
  - TSC1:p-S1387-TSC2
  - 'MAP1LC3C '
  - 'GABARAPL1(1-117) '
  - 'WDR45 '
  - WIPI1,WIPI2,(WDR45,WDR45B):PI3P
  - MTMR3,MTMR14
  - p-AMPK
  license: CC0
  name: Macroautophagy
seo: CreativeWork
title: Macroautophagy
wpid: WP3348
---