---
annotations:
- id: PW:0000243
  parent: regulatory pathway
  type: Pathway Ontology
  value: vascular endothelial growth factor signaling pathway
- id: CL:0000115
  parent: native cell
  type: Cell Type Ontology
  value: endothelial cell
authors:
- Prslab
- Khanspers
- AlexanderPico
- Egonw
- MaintBot
- DeSl
- Eweitz
citedin:
- link: PMC9175091
  title: A Nine-Strain Bacterial Consortium Improves Portal Hypertension and Insulin
    Signaling and Delays NAFLD Progression In Vivo (2022)
- link: PMC8977271
  title: Protrudin regulates FAK activation, endothelial cell migration and angiogenesis
    (2022)
- link: PMC8923641
  title: Multidimensional Analysis of CHMP Family Members in Hepatocellular Carcinoma
    (2022)
- link: PMC8200404
  title: Assessing the Contribution of Relative Macrophage Frequencies to Subcutaneous
    Adipose Tissue (2021)
- link: PMC7850313
  title: Protein Phosphatase 1 Regulatory Subunit 3B Genotype at rs4240624 Has a Major
    Effect on Gallbladder Bile Composition (2020)
- link: PMC6946775
  title: 'Temporal VEGFA responsive genes in HUVECs: Gene signatures and potential
    ligands/receptors fine-tuning angiogenesis (2019)'
- link: PMC6309236
  title: Biological Pathways Leading From ANGPTL8 to Diabetes Mellitus–A Co-expression
    Network Based Analysis (2018)
- link: PMC5143324
  title: VEGF-A/VEGFR2 signaling network in endothelial cells relevant to angiogenesis
    (2016)
- link: PMC9675776
  title: GediNET for discovering gene associations across diseases using knowledge
    based machine learning approach (2022)
- link: PMC9651203
  title: Characterization of the interactome profiling of Mycoplasma fermentans DnaK
    in cancer cells reveals interference with key cellular pathways (2022)
- link: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.769011
  title: 'A Practical Strategy for Exploring the Pharmacological Mechanism of Luteolin
    Against COVID-19/Asthma Comorbidity: Findings of System Pharmacology and Bioinformatics
    Analysis (2024)'
- link: PMC10752971
  title: PGF2α induces a pro-labour phenotypical switch in human myometrial cells
    that can be inhibited with PGF2α receptor antagonists (2023)
- link: PMC9785216
  title: Comparative RNA-Sequencing Analysis Reveals High Complexity and Heterogeneity
    of Transcriptomic and Immune Profiles in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Tumors of Viral
    (HBV, HCV) and Non-Viral Etiology (2022)
- link: PMC12004383
  title: Proteomics Analysis of Porcine Endometrial Cell-Derived Extracellular Vesicles
    Involved in Embryo Attachment (2025)
- link: PMC11977562
  title: Human Schwann Cell-Derived Extracellular Vesicle Isolation, Bioactivity Assessment,
    and Omics Characterization (2025)
- link: PMC11900854
  title: 'Seabirds in crisis: Plastic ingestion induces proteomic signatures of multiorgan
    failure and neurodegeneration (2025)'
communities:
- CPTAC
- ONTOX
description: 'Angiogenesis, the formation of new blood vessels from pre-existing vasculature,
  is central to a number of physiological conditions, from embryogenesis to wound
  healing in adults and is a hallmark of pathological conditions such as tumorigenesis
  [1-3]. Angiogenesis is mediated by the coordinated action of a variety of growth
  factors, metabolites and cell adhesion molecules in endothelial cells [4-6]. Vascular
  endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is the principal angiogenic growth factor modulating
  neovascularization [7].  The biological effect of VEGF is mediated through specific
  VEGF receptors on endothelial cell surface. VEGFs (VEGF-A, VEGF-B, VEGF-C and VEGF-D)
  interact with VEGF receptors such as VEGFR1, VEGFR2 and VEGFR3. Among them, VEGFA/VEGFR2
  signaling appears to mediate cellular responses involved in angiogenesis prominently.
  Further, VEGF/VEGFR1 signaling, though weak, converges to VEGFR2 signaling pathway.
  VEGFA binding to VEGFR2 at the surface of endothelial cells leads to dimerization
  and auto-phosphorylation of specific tyrosine residues in the cytoplasmic domain
  of VEGFR2. It leads to activation of multiple downstream signaling cascades and
  promotes endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation relevant
  to angiogenesis [8]. VEGFR2 dependent activation of PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling regulates
  cell survival, cell proliferation, anti-apoptotic and cell permeability functions
  [9]. Another important pathway of VEGF mediated cell proliferation appears to be
  through PLCÎ³-mediated activation of PKC and downstream induction of the ERK and
  other PKC-dependent pathways [10]. Endothelial cell migration is induced by VEGFA/VEGFR2
  signaling through activation of p38MAPK (actin polymerization) and FAK (focal adhesion
  turnover) which is particularly important in directed migration. Phosphosite specificity
  towards downstream signalling has also been documented. Phosphosite mapping documented
  seven phosphosites in VEGFR2 receptor: Y1054, Y1214, Y801, Y1175, Y951, Y1059 and
  Y996. Phosphorylation of Y1214 and Y1054 regulates signaling events involved in
  cell migration. Y801 phosphorylation regulates cell survival. Y1175 regulates both
  cell proliferation and migration. Y951 and Y1059 phosphorylation regulates cell
  survival, cell migration and cell proliferation.  VEGFA/VEGFR2 signaling network
  compiles data available in the literature with respect to VEGFA signaling (especially
  VEGFA-165) through VEGFR2 in endothelial cells. The signaling events involving these
  proteins were derived from experimentally validated data involving multiple experimental
  techniques and approaches. Individual signaling events in VEGFR2 signaling networks
  leading to cell proliferation, migration and survival were identified and categorized
  into protein-protein interactions, enzyme-catalyzed events, activation/inhibition
  reactions, transport of protein across subcellular compartments, and gene regulation
  events. Signaling molecules involved in VEGFA/VEGFR2 signaling were categorized
  to enzymes, receptors and transcription factors and the contextual activation/deactivation
  of these molecules downstream to VEGFA/ VEGFR2 signaling, in modulating angiogenesis,
  is documented.  VEGFA dependent angiogenesis pathway map depicts the integration
  of signaling pathways regulating cell survival, cell migration, cell proliferation,
  cellular interactions downstream of VEGFA/VEGFR2 signaling relevant to angiogenesis,
  regulation of VEGFR2, phosphosite specificity of VEGFR2 towards downstream signaling,
  post-translational modifications, molecular function-based information, cross-talks
  among proteins in the canonical signaling modules and the information on the compartmentalization
  of proteins. The map of VEGFA/VEGFR2 signaling network is interactive to help investigators
  to add new information as it becomes available in the future for analysis or representation.   VEGFA
  dependent angiogenesis pathway map may please be cited as:   1. Abhinand, C. S.,
  Raju, R., Soumya, S. J., Arya, P. S., and Sudhakaran, P. R. (2016). VEGF-A/VEGFR2
  signaling network in endothelial cells relevant to angiogenesis. Journal of cell
  communication and signaling, 10(4), 347-354.  2. Sunitha, P., Raju, R., Sajil, C.K.,
  Abhinand, C.S., Nair, A.S., Oommen, O.V., Sugunan, V.S.,  and Sudhakaran, P.R. (2019).
  Temporal VEGFA responsive genes in HUVECs: Gene signatures and potential ligands/receptors
  fine-tuning angiogenesis. Journal of Cell Communication and Signaling, 13, 561 -
  571.   References  [1] Folkman J (1971). Tumor angiogenesis: therapeutic implications.
  N Engl J Med. 285:1182-1186.   [2] Chatterjee S, Heukamp LC, Siobal M et al., 2013.
  Tumor VEGF: VEGFR2 autocrine feed-forward loop triggers angiogenesis in lung cancer.
  J Clin Invest. 123:1732-1740.   [3] Shibuya M (2014). VEGF-VEGFR Signals in Health
  and Disease. BiomolTher (Seoul). 22:1-9.   [4] Kumar VB, Binu S, Soumya SJ et al.,
  2014. Regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor by metabolic context of the
  cell. Glycoconj J. 31:427-434.   [5] Kitazume S, Imamaki R, Ogawa K et al., 2014.
  Sweet role of platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule in understanding angiogenesis.
  Glycobiology. 24:1260-1264.   [6] Kunhiraman H, Edatt L, Thekkeveedu S et al., 2016.
  2‐Deoxy Glucose Modulates Expression and Biological Activity of VEGF in a SIRT‐1
  Dependent Mechanism. J Cell Biochem.   [7] Lohela M, Bry M, Tammela T et al., 2009.
  VEGFs and receptors involved in angiogenesis versus lymphangiogenesis. Curr Opin
  Cell Biol. 21:154-165.   [8] Koch S, Claesson-Welsh L, 2012. Signal transduction
  by vascular endothelial growth factor receptors. Cold Spring Harbor perspectives
  in medicine. 2(7):a006502.   [9] Koch S, Tugues S, Li X et al., 2011. Signal transduction
  by vascular endothelial growth factor receptors. Biochem J.437:169-183.  [10] Simons
  M, Gordon E, Claesson-Welsh L. 2016. Mechanisms and regulation of endothelial VEGF
  receptor signalling. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol.       '
last-edited: 2023-04-23
ndex: 37b9b87c-8b68-11eb-9e72-0ac135e8bacf
organisms:
- Homo sapiens
redirect_from:
- /index.php/Pathway:WP3888
- /instance/WP3888
- /instance/WP3888_r126337
revision: r126337
schema-jsonld:
- '@context': https://schema.org/
  '@id': https://wikipathways.github.io/pathways/WP3888.html
  '@type': Dataset
  creator:
    '@type': Organization
    name: WikiPathways
  description: 'Angiogenesis, the formation of new blood vessels from pre-existing
    vasculature, is central to a number of physiological conditions, from embryogenesis
    to wound healing in adults and is a hallmark of pathological conditions such as
    tumorigenesis [1-3]. Angiogenesis is mediated by the coordinated action of a variety
    of growth factors, metabolites and cell adhesion molecules in endothelial cells
    [4-6]. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is the principal angiogenic growth
    factor modulating neovascularization [7].  The biological effect of VEGF is mediated
    through specific VEGF receptors on endothelial cell surface. VEGFs (VEGF-A, VEGF-B,
    VEGF-C and VEGF-D) interact with VEGF receptors such as VEGFR1, VEGFR2 and VEGFR3.
    Among them, VEGFA/VEGFR2 signaling appears to mediate cellular responses involved
    in angiogenesis prominently. Further, VEGF/VEGFR1 signaling, though weak, converges
    to VEGFR2 signaling pathway. VEGFA binding to VEGFR2 at the surface of endothelial
    cells leads to dimerization and auto-phosphorylation of specific tyrosine residues
    in the cytoplasmic domain of VEGFR2. It leads to activation of multiple downstream
    signaling cascades and promotes endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and
    tube formation relevant to angiogenesis [8]. VEGFR2 dependent activation of PI3K-AKT-mTOR
    signaling regulates cell survival, cell proliferation, anti-apoptotic and cell
    permeability functions [9]. Another important pathway of VEGF mediated cell proliferation
    appears to be through PLCÎ³-mediated activation of PKC and downstream induction
    of the ERK and other PKC-dependent pathways [10]. Endothelial cell migration is
    induced by VEGFA/VEGFR2 signaling through activation of p38MAPK (actin polymerization)
    and FAK (focal adhesion turnover) which is particularly important in directed
    migration. Phosphosite specificity towards downstream signalling has also been
    documented. Phosphosite mapping documented seven phosphosites in VEGFR2 receptor:
    Y1054, Y1214, Y801, Y1175, Y951, Y1059 and Y996. Phosphorylation of Y1214 and
    Y1054 regulates signaling events involved in cell migration. Y801 phosphorylation
    regulates cell survival. Y1175 regulates both cell proliferation and migration.
    Y951 and Y1059 phosphorylation regulates cell survival, cell migration and cell
    proliferation.  VEGFA/VEGFR2 signaling network compiles data available in the
    literature with respect to VEGFA signaling (especially VEGFA-165) through VEGFR2
    in endothelial cells. The signaling events involving these proteins were derived
    from experimentally validated data involving multiple experimental techniques
    and approaches. Individual signaling events in VEGFR2 signaling networks leading
    to cell proliferation, migration and survival were identified and categorized
    into protein-protein interactions, enzyme-catalyzed events, activation/inhibition
    reactions, transport of protein across subcellular compartments, and gene regulation
    events. Signaling molecules involved in VEGFA/VEGFR2 signaling were categorized
    to enzymes, receptors and transcription factors and the contextual activation/deactivation
    of these molecules downstream to VEGFA/ VEGFR2 signaling, in modulating angiogenesis,
    is documented.  VEGFA dependent angiogenesis pathway map depicts the integration
    of signaling pathways regulating cell survival, cell migration, cell proliferation,
    cellular interactions downstream of VEGFA/VEGFR2 signaling relevant to angiogenesis,
    regulation of VEGFR2, phosphosite specificity of VEGFR2 towards downstream signaling,
    post-translational modifications, molecular function-based information, cross-talks
    among proteins in the canonical signaling modules and the information on the compartmentalization
    of proteins. The map of VEGFA/VEGFR2 signaling network is interactive to help
    investigators to add new information as it becomes available in the future for
    analysis or representation.   VEGFA dependent angiogenesis pathway map may please
    be cited as:   1. Abhinand, C. S., Raju, R., Soumya, S. J., Arya, P. S., and Sudhakaran,
    P. R. (2016). VEGF-A/VEGFR2 signaling network in endothelial cells relevant to
    angiogenesis. Journal of cell communication and signaling, 10(4), 347-354.  2.
    Sunitha, P., Raju, R., Sajil, C.K., Abhinand, C.S., Nair, A.S., Oommen, O.V.,
    Sugunan, V.S.,  and Sudhakaran, P.R. (2019). Temporal VEGFA responsive genes in
    HUVECs: Gene signatures and potential ligands/receptors fine-tuning angiogenesis.
    Journal of Cell Communication and Signaling, 13, 561 - 571.   References  [1]
    Folkman J (1971). Tumor angiogenesis: therapeutic implications. N Engl J Med.
    285:1182-1186.   [2] Chatterjee S, Heukamp LC, Siobal M et al., 2013. Tumor VEGF:
    VEGFR2 autocrine feed-forward loop triggers angiogenesis in lung cancer. J Clin
    Invest. 123:1732-1740.   [3] Shibuya M (2014). VEGF-VEGFR Signals in Health and
    Disease. BiomolTher (Seoul). 22:1-9.   [4] Kumar VB, Binu S, Soumya SJ et al.,
    2014. Regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor by metabolic context of
    the cell. Glycoconj J. 31:427-434.   [5] Kitazume S, Imamaki R, Ogawa K et al.,
    2014. Sweet role of platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule in understanding
    angiogenesis. Glycobiology. 24:1260-1264.   [6] Kunhiraman H, Edatt L, Thekkeveedu
    S et al., 2016. 2‐Deoxy Glucose Modulates Expression and Biological Activity of
    VEGF in a SIRT‐1 Dependent Mechanism. J Cell Biochem.   [7] Lohela M, Bry M, Tammela
    T et al., 2009. VEGFs and receptors involved in angiogenesis versus lymphangiogenesis.
    Curr Opin Cell Biol. 21:154-165.   [8] Koch S, Claesson-Welsh L, 2012. Signal
    transduction by vascular endothelial growth factor receptors. Cold Spring Harbor
    perspectives in medicine. 2(7):a006502.   [9] Koch S, Tugues S, Li X et al., 2011.
    Signal transduction by vascular endothelial growth factor receptors. Biochem J.437:169-183.  [10]
    Simons M, Gordon E, Claesson-Welsh L. 2016. Mechanisms and regulation of endothelial
    VEGF receptor signalling. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol.       '
  keywords:
  - ABCF2
  - ABL1
  - ACACA
  - ACACB
  - ACKR3
  - ACOT9
  - ACP1
  - ACTG1
  - ADAM10
  - ADAM9
  - ADAMTS1
  - ADAMTS9
  - ADRB2
  - AFDN
  - AKAP2
  - AKT1
  - AKT1S1
  - ALB
  - ALDOA
  - AMOT
  - ANXA1
  - AP2A1
  - AP2S1
  - APOLD1
  - ARF4
  - ARF6
  - ARHGEF15
  - ARMCX1
  - ARPC5L
  - ARRB2
  - ASCC3
  - ATF2
  - ATF4
  - ATF6
  - ATP6V0D1
  - ATP6V1E1
  - BCAR1
  - BCL2
  - BCL2L1
  - BIN1
  - BIRC5
  - BMP10
  - BMP2
  - BMX
  - BRD4
  - BSG
  - C15ORF39
  - CACNA2D1
  - CALR
  - CALU
  - CAMKK2
  - CAPN2
  - CAPZB
  - CASC10
  - CAV1
  - CBL
  - CCDC124
  - CCL2
  - CCND1
  - CCRL2
  - CCT7
  - CDC42
  - CDC42BPB
  - CDH5
  - CDKN1B
  - CFL1
  - CGNL1
  - CHAC1
  - CLIC1
  - CLTC
  - CNP
  - COPG1
  - CREB1
  - CREBBP
  - CRIP2
  - CRK
  - CSK
  - CSRP1
  - CSRP2
  - CTGF
  - CTNNA1
  - CTNNB1
  - CTNND1
  - CXCL8
  - CYBB
  - CYCS
  - CYP2C8
  - CYR61
  - DECR1
  - DHX29
  - DHX36
  - DKK1
  - DLL4
  - DNAJA1
  - DNAJB4
  - DNAJB9
  - DOK1
  - DPM1
  - DSC1
  - DUSP5
  - EEA1
  - EGR1
  - EGR3
  - EIF2A
  - EIF2AK3
  - EIF3D
  - EIF3F
  - EIF3H
  - EIF4E
  - EIF4G1
  - EIF4G2
  - ELK1
  - ENG
  - EPB41
  - EPHA2
  - EPHB2
  - EPN1
  - EPRS
  - EPS15
  - ERG
  - ERN1
  - ETS1
  - EWSR1
  - EZR
  - F3
  - FADD
  - FAF1
  - FAM120A
  - FARSB
  - FAS
  - FBXW11
  - FGA
  - FGB
  - FGD5
  - FGG
  - FHL2
  - FHOD1
  - FJX1
  - FLII
  - FLNB
  - FLT1
  - FMNL3
  - FN1
  - FOXO1
  - FOXO3
  - FOXO4
  - FRS2
  - FSCN1
  - FUT1
  - FXR2
  - FYN
  - GAB1
  - GAPDH
  - GATA2
  - GIGYF2
  - GIPC1
  - GJA1
  - GLUD1
  - GPC1
  - GPX1
  - GRB10
  - GRB2
  - GRSF1
  - GSK3B
  - HBD
  - HBEGF
  - HDAC1
  - HDAC4
  - HDAC5
  - HDAC7
  - HDAC9
  - HERPUD1
  - HGS
  - HLX
  - HMGB1
  - HRAS
  - HSP90AA1
  - HSP90AB2P
  - HSPA1A
  - HSPB1
  - HTRA1
  - HYOU1
  - ICAM1
  - IDH2
  - IER5
  - IGFBP3
  - IGFBP7
  - INPP5K
  - IQGAP1
  - ITCH
  - ITGAV
  - ITGB1
  - ITGB3
  - ITGB5
  - ITPR1
  - JAG1
  - JUN
  - KANK1
  - KATNAL2
  - KL
  - LARP7
  - LDB2
  - LDHA
  - LIMK1
  - LMAN1
  - LMO2
  - LRRC59
  - LRRFIP2
  - LUC7L
  - MAP2K1
  - MAP2K2
  - MAP2K3
  - MAP2K4
  - MAP2K6
  - MAP2K7
  - MAP3K5
  - MAPK1
  - MAPK12
  - MAPK14
  - MAPK3
  - MAPK8
  - MAPK9
  - MAPKAP1
  - MAPKAPK2
  - MAPKAPK5
  - MDM2
  - MEF2C
  - MICAL2
  - MKNK1
  - MLLT4
  - MLST8
  - MMP10
  - MMP14
  - MMP2
  - MMRN2
  - MOV10
  - MTOR
  - MYH11
  - MYH9
  - MYL2
  - MYO1C
  - MYO6
  - NAP1L1
  - NAPA
  - NCF1
  - NCF2
  - NCK1
  - NCL
  - NDRG1
  - NEXN
  - NFATC1
  - NFATC2
  - NFKB1
  - NFKBIA
  - NOS3
  - NOTCH4
  - NOX4
  - NR4A1
  - NR4A2
  - NR4A3
  - NRARP
  - NRDG1
  - NRP1
  - NRP2
  - NUMB
  - NUR4A1
  - OCLN
  - OCRL
  - P4HA2
  - P4HB
  - PABPC1
  - PAK1
  - PAK2
  - PBXIP1
  - PDE4DIP
  - PDIA6
  - PDPK1
  - PFN1
  - PGD
  - PGF
  - PGK1
  - PIK3CA
  - PIK3R1
  - PIK3R2
  - PLA2G4A
  - PLA2G5
  - PLAU
  - PLAUR
  - PLCB3
  - PLCG1
  - PLOD3
  - PNP
  - PPM1G
  - PPP1CA
  - PPP2CA
  - PPP3CA
  - PRDX2
  - PRDX6
  - PRKAA1
  - PRKAA2
  - PRKCA
  - PRKCB
  - PRKCD
  - PRKCE
  - PRKCI
  - PRKCZ
  - PRKD1
  - PRKD2
  - PRKG1
  - PRKRA
  - PRRC2C
  - PSMD11
  - PSMD4
  - PTGS2
  - PTK2
  - PTK2B
  - PTMA
  - PTPN1
  - PTPN11
  - PTPN14
  - PTPN6
  - PTPN9
  - PTPRJ
  - PTPRZ1
  - PXN
  - QKI
  - R1CTOR
  - RAB11
  - RAB37
  - RAB4A
  - RAB5A
  - RAC1
  - RACK1
  - RAF1
  - RAP1A
  - RAP1B
  - RAPGEF1
  - RAPTOR
  - RBM39
  - RCAN1
  - RCAN2
  - RCN1
  - RELA
  - RHOA
  - RHOC
  - RHOJ
  - RND1
  - ROCK1
  - ROCK2
  - RPL10A
  - RPL13A
  - RPL18A
  - RPL26
  - RPL27
  - RPL39P5
  - RPL5
  - RPL7
  - RPLP2
  - RPS11
  - RPS6
  - RPS6KA5
  - RPS6KB1
  - S1PR1
  - SARS
  - SCUBE2
  - SDCBP
  - SDF2L1
  - SELE
  - SEMA6D
  - SET
  - SH2D2A
  - SH3BGRL3
  - SHB
  - SHC1
  - SHC2
  - SHROOM2
  - SIAH2
  - SLC25A11
  - SLC25A25
  - SLC2A14
  - SLC39A14
  - SLC7A1
  - SLC8A1
  - SMARCA2
  - SND1
  - SOD2
  - SPHK1
  - SPIRE1
  - SRC
  - SRF
  - SRP54
  - SRPK1
  - SSR3
  - SSR4
  - STAM
  - STAT1
  - STAT3
  - STAT6
  - STIP1
  - SYNJ1
  - TAL1
  - TAOK2
  - TBCA
  - TCEB1
  - TCEB3
  - TEAD4
  - TFAM
  - TFCP2
  - TKT
  - TMEM170A
  - TMOD1
  - TMOD3
  - TMSB10
  - TMSB4X
  - TNFRSF10C
  - TNFRSF25
  - TNXB
  - TPCN2
  - TPM3
  - TPP1
  - TRAF3IP2
  - TRIP4
  - TRPC1
  - TRPC3
  - TUBA1C
  - TUBB8
  - TXN
  - TXNDC5
  - TXNIP
  - UBAP2L
  - USP10
  - VAV2
  - VCAM1
  - VCL
  - VEGFA
  - VEGFR2
  - VPS39
  - WASF1
  - YWHAE
  - ZC3H15
  - ZNF555
  license: CC0
  name: VEGFA-VEGFR2 signaling
seo: CreativeWork
title: VEGFA-VEGFR2 signaling
wpid: WP3888
---