---
annotations:
- type: Disease Ontology
  value: Rett syndrome
- type: Pathway Ontology
  value: transcription pathway via transcription factor mediated signaling
authors:
- ReactomeTeam
- DeSl
- Marvin M2
- Eweitz
description: MECP2 is an X chromosome gene whose loss-of-function mutations are an
  underlying cause of the majority of Rett syndrome cases. The MECP2 gene locus consists
  of four exons. Both exon 1 and exon 2 contain translation start sites. Alternative
  splicing of the second exon results in expression of two MECP2 transcript isoforms,
  MECP2_e1 (MECP2B or MECP2alpha) and MECP2_e2 (MECP2A or MECP2beta). The N-terminus
  of the MECP2_e1 isoform, in which exon 2 is spliced out, is encoded by exon 1. The
  N-terminus of the MECP2_e2 isoforms, which includes both exon 1 and exon 2, is encoded
  by exon 2, as the exon 2 translation start site is used. Exons 3 and 4 are present
  in both isoforms. The MECP2_e2 isoform was cloned first and is therefore more extensively
  studied. The MECP2_e1 isoform is more abundant in the brain (Mnatzakanian et al.
  2004, Kriaucionis and Bird 2004, Kaddoum et al. 2013). Mecp2 isoforms show different
  expression patterns during mouse brain development and in adult brain regions (Dragich
  et al. 2007, Olson et al. 2014). While Rett syndrome mutations mainly occur in exons
  3 and 4 of MECP2, thereby affecting both MECP2 isoforms (Mnatzakanian et al. 2004),
  some mutations occur in exon 1, affecting MECP2_e1 only. No mutations have been
  described in exon 2 (Gianakopoulos et al. 2012). Knockout of Mecp2_e1 isoform in
  mice, through a naturally occurring Rett syndrome point mutation which affects the
  first translation codon of MECP2_e1, recapitulates Rett-like phenotype. Knockout
  of Mecp2_e2 isoform in mice does not result in impairment of neurologic functions
  (Yasui et al. 2014). In Mecp2 null mice, transgenic expression of either Mecp2_e1
  or Mecp2_e2 prevents development of Rett-like phenotype, with Mecp2_e1 rescuing
  more Rett-like symptoms than Mecp2_e2. This indicates that both splice variants
  can fulfill basic Mecp2 functions in the mouse brain (Kerr et al. 2012). Changes
  in gene expression upon over-expression of either MECP2_e1 or MECP2_e2 imply overlapping
  as well as distinct target genes (Orlic-Milacic et al. 2014).<p>Methyl-CpG-binding
  protein 2 encoded by the MECP2 gene binds to methylated CpG sequences in the DNA.
  The binding is not generic, however, but is affected by the underlying DNA sequence
  (Yoon et al. 2003). MECP2 binds to DNA containing 5 methylcytosine (5mC DNA), a
  DNA modification associated with transcriptional repression (Mellen et al. 2012),
  both in the context of CpG islands and outside of CpG islands (Chen et al. 2015).
  In addition, MECP2 binds to DNA containing 5 hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC DNA), a
  DNA modification associated with transcriptional activation (Mellen et al. 2012).
  MECP2 binds to DNA as a monomer, occupying about 11 bp of the DNA. Binding of one
  MECP2 molecule facilitates binding of the second MECP2 molecule, and therefore clustering
  can occur at target sites. MECP2 binding to chromatin may be facilitated by nucleosome
  methylation (Ghosh et al. 2010).<p>MECP2 was initially proposed to act as a generic
  repressor of gene transcription. However, high throughput studies of MECP2-induced
  changes in gene expression in mouse hippocampus (Chahrour et al. 2008), and mouse
  and human cell lines (Orlic-Milacic et al. 2014) indicate that more genes are up-regulated
  than down-regulated when MECP2 is overexpressed. At least for some genes directly
  upregulated by MECP2, it was shown that a complex of MECP2 and CREB1 was involved
  in transcriptional stimulation (Chahrour et al. 2008, Chen et al. 2013).<p>MECP2
  expression is the highest in postmitotic neurons compared to other cell types, with
  MECP2 being almost as abundant as core histones. Phosphorylation of MECP2 in response
  to neuronal activity regulates binding of MECP2 to DNA, suggesting that MECP2 may
  remodel chromatin in a neuronal activity-dependent manner. The resulting changes
  in gene expression would then modulate synaptic plasticity and behavior (reviewed
  by Ebert and Greenberg 2013). In human embryonic stem cell derived Rett syndrome
  neurons, loss of MECP2 is associated with a significant reduction in transcription
  of neuronally active genes, as well as the reduction in nascent protein synthesis.
  The reduction in nascent protein synthesis can at least in part be attributed to
  the decreased activity of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway. Neuronal morphology
  (reduced soma size) and the level of protein synthesis in Rett neurons can be ameliorated
  by treating the cells with growth factors which activate the PI3K/AKT/mTOR cascade
  or by inhibition of PTEN, the negative regulator of AKT activation. Mitochondrial
  gene expression is also downregulated in Rett neurons, which is associated with
  a reduced capacity of the mitochondrial electron transport chain (Ricciardi et al.
  2011, Li et al. 2013). Treatment of Mecp2 null mice with IGF1 (insulin-like growth
  factor 1) reverses or ameliorates some Rett-like features such as locomotion, respiratory
  difficulties and irregular heart rate (Tropea et al. 2009).<p>MECP2 regulates expression
  of a number of ligands and receptors involved in neuronal development and function.
  Ligands regulated by MECP2 include BDNF (reviewed by Li and Pozzo-Miller 2014, and
  KhorshidAhmad et al. 2016), CRH (McGill et al. 2006, Samaco et al. 2012), SST (Somatostatin)
  (Chahrour et al. 2008), and DLL1 (Li et al. 2014). MECP2 also regulates transcription
  of genes involved in the synthesis of the neurotransmitter GABA – GAD1 (Chao et
  al. 2010) and GAD2 (Chao et al. 2010, He et al. 2014). MECP2 may be involved in
  direct stimulation of transcription from the GLUD1 gene promoter, encoding mitochondrial
  glutamate dehydrogenase 1, which may be involved in the turnover of the neurotransmitter
  glutamate (Livide et al. 2015). Receptors regulated by MECP2 include glutamate receptor
  GRIA2 (Qiu et al. 2012), NMDA receptor subunits GRIN2A (Durand et al. 2012) and
  GRIN2B (Lee et al. 2008), opioid receptors OPRK1 (Chahrour et al. 2008) and OPRM1
  (Hwang et al. 2009, Hwang et al. 2010, Samaco et al. 2012), GPRIN1 (Chahrour et
  al. 2008), MET (Plummer et al. 2013), NOTCH1 (Li et al. 2014). Channels/transporters
  regulated by MECP2 include TRPC3 (Li et al. 2012) and SLC2A3 (Chen et al. 2013).
  MECP2 regulates transcription of FKBP5, involved in trafficking of glucocorticoid
  receptors (Nuber et al. 2005, Urdinguio et al. 2008). MECP2 is implicated in regulation
  of expression of SEMA3F (semaphorin 3F) in mouse olfactory neurons (Degano et al.
  2009). In zebrafish, Mecp2 is implicated in sensory axon guidance by direct stimulation
  of transcription of Sema5b and Robo2 (Leong et al. 2015). MECP2 may indirectly regulate
  signaling by neuronal receptor tyrosine kinases by regulating transcription of protein
  tyrosine phosphatases, PTPN1 (Krishnan et al. 2015) and PTPN4 (Williamson et al.
  2015).<p>MECP2 regulates transcription of several transcription factors involved
  in functioning of the nervous system, such as CREB1, MEF2C, RBFOX1 (Chahrour et
  al. 2008) and PPARG (Mann et al. 2010, Joss-Moore et al. 2011).<p>MECP2 associates
  with transcription and chromatin remodeling factors, such as CREB1 (Chahrour et
  al. 2008, Chen et al. 2013), the HDAC1/2-containing SIN3A co-repressor complex (Nan
  et al. 1998), and the NCoR/SMRT complex (Lyst et al. 2013, Ebert et al. 2013). There
  are contradictory reports on the interaction of MECP2 with the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling
  complex (Harikrishnan et al. 2005, Hu et al. 2006). Interaction of MECP2 with the
  DNA methyltransferase DNMT1 has been reported, with a concomitant increase in enzymatic
  activity of DNMT1 (Kimura and Shiota 2003).<p>In addition to DNA binding-dependent
  regulation of gene expression by MECP2, MECP2 may influence gene expression by interaction
  with components of the DROSHA microprocessor complex and the consequent change in
  the levels of mature microRNAs (Cheng et al. 2014, Tsujimura et al. 2015).<p>Increased
  MECP2 promoter methylation is observed in both male and female autism patients (Nagarajan
  et al. 2008). Regulatory elements that undergo methylation are found in the promoter
  and the first intron of MECP2 and their methylation was shown to regulate Mecp2
  expression in mice (Liyanage et al. 2013). Mouse Mecp2 promoter methylation was
  shown to be affected by stress (Franklin et al. 2010).<p>The Rett-like phenotype
  of Mecp2 null mice is reversible (Guy et al. 2007), but appropriate levels of Mecp2
  expression need to be achieved (Alvarez-Saavedra et al. 2007). When Mecp2 expression
  is restored in astrocytes of Mecp2 null mice, amelioration of Rett symptoms occurs,
  involving non-cell-autonomous positive effect on mutant neurons and increasing level
  of the excitatory glutamate transporter VGLUT1 (Lioy et al. 2011). Microglia derived
  from Mecp2 null mice releases higher than normal levels of glutamate, which has
  toxic effect on neurons. Increased glutamate secretion may be due to increased levels
  of glutaminase (Gls), involved in glutamate synthesis, and increased levels of connexin-32
  (Gjb1), involved in glutamate release, in Mecp2 null microglia (Maezawa and Jin
  2010). Targeted deletion of Mecp2 from Sim1-expressing neurons of the mouse hypothalamus
  recapitulates some Rett syndrome-like features and highlights the role of Mecp2
  in feeding behavior and response to stress (Fyffe et al. 2008).<p>Mecp2 overexpression,
  similar to MECP2 duplication syndrome, causes neurologic phenotype similar to Rett
  (Collins et al. 2004, Luikenhuis et al. 2004, Van Esch et al. 2005, Alvarez-Saavedra
  2007, Van Esch et al. 2012). The phenotype of the mouse model of the MECP2 duplication
  syndrome in adult mice is reversible when Mecp2 expression levels are corrected
  (Sztainberg et al. 2015).   View original pathway at [http://www.reactome.org/PathwayBrowser/#DIAGRAM=8986944
  Reactome].
last-edited: 2021-05-09
organisms:
- Homo sapiens
redirect_from:
- /index.php/Pathway:WP4453
- /instance/WP4453
schema-jsonld:
- '@context': https://schema.org/
  '@id': https://wikipathways.github.io/pathways/WP4453.html
  '@type': Dataset
  creator:
    '@type': Organization
    name: WikiPathways
  description: MECP2 is an X chromosome gene whose loss-of-function mutations are
    an underlying cause of the majority of Rett syndrome cases. The MECP2 gene locus
    consists of four exons. Both exon 1 and exon 2 contain translation start sites.
    Alternative splicing of the second exon results in expression of two MECP2 transcript
    isoforms, MECP2_e1 (MECP2B or MECP2alpha) and MECP2_e2 (MECP2A or MECP2beta).
    The N-terminus of the MECP2_e1 isoform, in which exon 2 is spliced out, is encoded
    by exon 1. The N-terminus of the MECP2_e2 isoforms, which includes both exon 1
    and exon 2, is encoded by exon 2, as the exon 2 translation start site is used.
    Exons 3 and 4 are present in both isoforms. The MECP2_e2 isoform was cloned first
    and is therefore more extensively studied. The MECP2_e1 isoform is more abundant
    in the brain (Mnatzakanian et al. 2004, Kriaucionis and Bird 2004, Kaddoum et
    al. 2013). Mecp2 isoforms show different expression patterns during mouse brain
    development and in adult brain regions (Dragich et al. 2007, Olson et al. 2014).
    While Rett syndrome mutations mainly occur in exons 3 and 4 of MECP2, thereby
    affecting both MECP2 isoforms (Mnatzakanian et al. 2004), some mutations occur
    in exon 1, affecting MECP2_e1 only. No mutations have been described in exon 2
    (Gianakopoulos et al. 2012). Knockout of Mecp2_e1 isoform in mice, through a naturally
    occurring Rett syndrome point mutation which affects the first translation codon
    of MECP2_e1, recapitulates Rett-like phenotype. Knockout of Mecp2_e2 isoform in
    mice does not result in impairment of neurologic functions (Yasui et al. 2014).
    In Mecp2 null mice, transgenic expression of either Mecp2_e1 or Mecp2_e2 prevents
    development of Rett-like phenotype, with Mecp2_e1 rescuing more Rett-like symptoms
    than Mecp2_e2. This indicates that both splice variants can fulfill basic Mecp2
    functions in the mouse brain (Kerr et al. 2012). Changes in gene expression upon
    over-expression of either MECP2_e1 or MECP2_e2 imply overlapping as well as distinct
    target genes (Orlic-Milacic et al. 2014).<p>Methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 encoded
    by the MECP2 gene binds to methylated CpG sequences in the DNA. The binding is
    not generic, however, but is affected by the underlying DNA sequence (Yoon et
    al. 2003). MECP2 binds to DNA containing 5 methylcytosine (5mC DNA), a DNA modification
    associated with transcriptional repression (Mellen et al. 2012), both in the context
    of CpG islands and outside of CpG islands (Chen et al. 2015). In addition, MECP2
    binds to DNA containing 5 hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC DNA), a DNA modification
    associated with transcriptional activation (Mellen et al. 2012). MECP2 binds to
    DNA as a monomer, occupying about 11 bp of the DNA. Binding of one MECP2 molecule
    facilitates binding of the second MECP2 molecule, and therefore clustering can
    occur at target sites. MECP2 binding to chromatin may be facilitated by nucleosome
    methylation (Ghosh et al. 2010).<p>MECP2 was initially proposed to act as a generic
    repressor of gene transcription. However, high throughput studies of MECP2-induced
    changes in gene expression in mouse hippocampus (Chahrour et al. 2008), and mouse
    and human cell lines (Orlic-Milacic et al. 2014) indicate that more genes are
    up-regulated than down-regulated when MECP2 is overexpressed. At least for some
    genes directly upregulated by MECP2, it was shown that a complex of MECP2 and
    CREB1 was involved in transcriptional stimulation (Chahrour et al. 2008, Chen
    et al. 2013).<p>MECP2 expression is the highest in postmitotic neurons compared
    to other cell types, with MECP2 being almost as abundant as core histones. Phosphorylation
    of MECP2 in response to neuronal activity regulates binding of MECP2 to DNA, suggesting
    that MECP2 may remodel chromatin in a neuronal activity-dependent manner. The
    resulting changes in gene expression would then modulate synaptic plasticity and
    behavior (reviewed by Ebert and Greenberg 2013). In human embryonic stem cell
    derived Rett syndrome neurons, loss of MECP2 is associated with a significant
    reduction in transcription of neuronally active genes, as well as the reduction
    in nascent protein synthesis. The reduction in nascent protein synthesis can at
    least in part be attributed to the decreased activity of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling
    pathway. Neuronal morphology (reduced soma size) and the level of protein synthesis
    in Rett neurons can be ameliorated by treating the cells with growth factors which
    activate the PI3K/AKT/mTOR cascade or by inhibition of PTEN, the negative regulator
    of AKT activation. Mitochondrial gene expression is also downregulated in Rett
    neurons, which is associated with a reduced capacity of the mitochondrial electron
    transport chain (Ricciardi et al. 2011, Li et al. 2013). Treatment of Mecp2 null
    mice with IGF1 (insulin-like growth factor 1) reverses or ameliorates some Rett-like
    features such as locomotion, respiratory difficulties and irregular heart rate
    (Tropea et al. 2009).<p>MECP2 regulates expression of a number of ligands and
    receptors involved in neuronal development and function. Ligands regulated by
    MECP2 include BDNF (reviewed by Li and Pozzo-Miller 2014, and KhorshidAhmad et
    al. 2016), CRH (McGill et al. 2006, Samaco et al. 2012), SST (Somatostatin) (Chahrour
    et al. 2008), and DLL1 (Li et al. 2014). MECP2 also regulates transcription of
    genes involved in the synthesis of the neurotransmitter GABA – GAD1 (Chao et
    al. 2010) and GAD2 (Chao et al. 2010, He et al. 2014). MECP2 may be involved in
    direct stimulation of transcription from the GLUD1 gene promoter, encoding mitochondrial
    glutamate dehydrogenase 1, which may be involved in the turnover of the neurotransmitter
    glutamate (Livide et al. 2015). Receptors regulated by MECP2 include glutamate
    receptor GRIA2 (Qiu et al. 2012), NMDA receptor subunits GRIN2A (Durand et al.
    2012) and GRIN2B (Lee et al. 2008), opioid receptors OPRK1 (Chahrour et al. 2008)
    and OPRM1 (Hwang et al. 2009, Hwang et al. 2010, Samaco et al. 2012), GPRIN1 (Chahrour
    et al. 2008), MET (Plummer et al. 2013), NOTCH1 (Li et al. 2014). Channels/transporters
    regulated by MECP2 include TRPC3 (Li et al. 2012) and SLC2A3 (Chen et al. 2013).
    MECP2 regulates transcription of FKBP5, involved in trafficking of glucocorticoid
    receptors (Nuber et al. 2005, Urdinguio et al. 2008). MECP2 is implicated in regulation
    of expression of SEMA3F (semaphorin 3F) in mouse olfactory neurons (Degano et
    al. 2009). In zebrafish, Mecp2 is implicated in sensory axon guidance by direct
    stimulation of transcription of Sema5b and Robo2 (Leong et al. 2015). MECP2 may
    indirectly regulate signaling by neuronal receptor tyrosine kinases by regulating
    transcription of protein tyrosine phosphatases, PTPN1 (Krishnan et al. 2015) and
    PTPN4 (Williamson et al. 2015).<p>MECP2 regulates transcription of several transcription
    factors involved in functioning of the nervous system, such as CREB1, MEF2C, RBFOX1
    (Chahrour et al. 2008) and PPARG (Mann et al. 2010, Joss-Moore et al. 2011).<p>MECP2
    associates with transcription and chromatin remodeling factors, such as CREB1
    (Chahrour et al. 2008, Chen et al. 2013), the HDAC1/2-containing SIN3A co-repressor
    complex (Nan et al. 1998), and the NCoR/SMRT complex (Lyst et al. 2013, Ebert
    et al. 2013). There are contradictory reports on the interaction of MECP2 with
    the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex (Harikrishnan et al. 2005, Hu et al.
    2006). Interaction of MECP2 with the DNA methyltransferase DNMT1 has been reported,
    with a concomitant increase in enzymatic activity of DNMT1 (Kimura and Shiota
    2003).<p>In addition to DNA binding-dependent regulation of gene expression by
    MECP2, MECP2 may influence gene expression by interaction with components of the
    DROSHA microprocessor complex and the consequent change in the levels of mature
    microRNAs (Cheng et al. 2014, Tsujimura et al. 2015).<p>Increased MECP2 promoter
    methylation is observed in both male and female autism patients (Nagarajan et
    al. 2008). Regulatory elements that undergo methylation are found in the promoter
    and the first intron of MECP2 and their methylation was shown to regulate Mecp2
    expression in mice (Liyanage et al. 2013). Mouse Mecp2 promoter methylation was
    shown to be affected by stress (Franklin et al. 2010).<p>The Rett-like phenotype
    of Mecp2 null mice is reversible (Guy et al. 2007), but appropriate levels of
    Mecp2 expression need to be achieved (Alvarez-Saavedra et al. 2007). When Mecp2
    expression is restored in astrocytes of Mecp2 null mice, amelioration of Rett
    symptoms occurs, involving non-cell-autonomous positive effect on mutant neurons
    and increasing level of the excitatory glutamate transporter VGLUT1 (Lioy et al.
    2011). Microglia derived from Mecp2 null mice releases higher than normal levels
    of glutamate, which has toxic effect on neurons. Increased glutamate secretion
    may be due to increased levels of glutaminase (Gls), involved in glutamate synthesis,
    and increased levels of connexin-32 (Gjb1), involved in glutamate release, in
    Mecp2 null microglia (Maezawa and Jin 2010). Targeted deletion of Mecp2 from Sim1-expressing
    neurons of the mouse hypothalamus recapitulates some Rett syndrome-like features
    and highlights the role of Mecp2 in feeding behavior and response to stress (Fyffe
    et al. 2008).<p>Mecp2 overexpression, similar to MECP2 duplication syndrome, causes
    neurologic phenotype similar to Rett (Collins et al. 2004, Luikenhuis et al. 2004,
    Van Esch et al. 2005, Alvarez-Saavedra 2007, Van Esch et al. 2012). The phenotype
    of the mouse model of the MECP2 duplication syndrome in adult mice is reversible
    when Mecp2 expression levels are corrected (Sztainberg et al. 2015).   View original
    pathway at [http://www.reactome.org/PathwayBrowser/#DIAGRAM=8986944 Reactome].
  keywords:
  - MET
  - 'GRIN2A gene '
  - FKBP5 gene
  - DLL1
  - SIN3A:HDAC1,HDAC2
  - 'TRPC3 gene '
  - MET gene
  - 'DLL1 gene '
  - MECP2:NOTCH1 gene
  - miR-132 RISC
  - PTPN1
  - 'OPRM1 gene '
  - NOTCH1 gene
  - 'Ca2+ '
  - NCoR/SMRT complex
  - MECP2:SIN3A:HDAC1
  - 'p-T287-CAMK2G '
  - 'TNRC6B '
  - GRIN2B
  - 'p-T286-CAMK2A '
  - MOBP
  - MECP2:SIN3A:HDAC1:BDNF gene
  - 5mC-DNA
  - MECP2:5hmC-DNA
  - OPRK1
  - and Processing
  - p-S133-CREB1:MIR132
  - 'PRKACA '
  - 'GAD2 gene '
  - 'p-S423-MECP2_e2 '
  - 'SST gene '
  - MECP2:DLL1 gene
  - 'p-S133-CREB1 '
  - MECP2:GPRIN1 gene
  - DGCR8
  - GRIN2B gene
  - miR-137 RISC
  - GPRIN1
  - MIR132 gene
  - Signaling by NOTCH
  - AURKB
  - MECP2:HTT
  - LBR
  - 'p-S80-MECP2_e2 '
  - SLC2A3 gene
  - gene
  - MECP2:SIN3A:HDAC1,HDAC2
  - 'miR-132-5p '
  - OPRM1 gene
  - homodimer
  - 'GPRIN1 gene '
  - MECP2:GRIN2A gene
  - PTPN1 gene
  - MECP2:SIN3A:HDAC1:HDAC2
  - MECP2:RBFOX1 gene
  - 'TBL1XR1 '
  - MECP2:MEF2C gene
  - 'TBL1X '
  - 'p-T287-CAMK2B '
  - MECP2:DGCR8
  - 'IRAK1 gene '
  - MECP2:IRAK1 gene
  - 'MECP2_e1 '
  - 'MECP2_e2 '
  - p-S80-MECP2
  - PVALB
  - 'CALM1 '
  - Active PRKACA,CaMK
  - 'MIR132 gene '
  - MIR137 gene
  - MECP2:SIN3A:HDAC1:HDAC2:GRIA2 gene
  - 'HTT '
  - PTPN4
  - MECP2:MET gene
  - SGK1 gene
  - 'GAD1 gene '
  - SLC2A3
  - 'CRH gene '
  - p-S423-MECP2
  - CRH gene
  - TRPC3 gene
  - CREB1
  - BDNF
  - MOBP gene
  - 'OPRK1 gene '
  - OPRK1 gene
  - MECP2:GAMT gene
  - 'NOTCH1 gene '
  - HTT
  - 'HDAC3 '
  - 'EIF2C1 '
  - MECP2:CREB1 gene
  - SOX2
  - 'p-T308-MECP2_e2 '
  - PVALB gene
  - p-T308-MECP2
  - 'PTEN mRNA '
  - complex
  - 'CAMK4 '
  - '5hmC-DNA '
  - p-S133-CREB1
  - 'MOV10 '
  - 'TNRC6A '
  - 'EIF2C3 '
  - MECP2:GRIN2B gene
  - GAD1 gene
  - 'RBFOX1 gene '
  - BDNF gene
  - 'p-S435-MECP2_e1 '
  - IV
  - MECP2:PTPN1 gene
  - SST gene
  - 'AGO2 '
  - MECP2:PPARG gene
  - 'MOBP gene '
  - Active CaMK IV,(CaMK
  - MECP2:GAD2 gene
  - MECP2:p-S133-CREB1:SLC2A3 gene
  - 5hmC-DNA
  - 'SOX2 '
  - 'HDAC2 '
  - CRH
  - 'p-T320-MeCP2_e1 '
  - RISC
  - FOXG1
  - 'FOXG1 '
  - dimers
  - RBFOX1
  - 'FKBP5 gene '
  - FKBP5
  - 'PPARG gene '
  - TRPC3(1-848)
  - PTEN mRNA:miR-137
  - GAD2 gene
  - 'HDAC1 '
  - 'NCOR1 '
  - 'PVALB gene '
  - 'MET gene '
  - IRAK1 gene
  - 'GRIN2B gene '
  - 'GPS2 '
  - 'CREB1 gene '
  - MEF2C gene
  - GRIA2
  - MECP2 mRNA
  - RBFOX1 gene
  - Somatostatin
  - MECP2 mRNA:miR-132
  - 'SST(89-116) '
  - Pre-NOTCH Expression
  - CREB1 gene
  - PXLP-K405-GAD1
  - MEF2C
  - MECP2:TRPC3 gene
  - 'SGK1 gene '
  - MECP2:FKBP5 gene
  - MECP2:SGK1 gene
  - 'NCOR2 '
  - GRIN2A gene
  - 'MECP2_e1 mRNA '
  - 'SLC2A3 gene '
  - MECP2:p-S133-CREB1:SST gene
  - MECP2:PVALB gene
  - GRIN2A
  - MECP2:CRH gene
  - IRAK1
  - MECP2
  - MECP2:GAD1 gene
  - 'TNRC6C '
  - 'EIF2C4 '
  - MECP2:SOX2:MIR137
  - PPARG gene
  - 'MIR137 gene '
  - DLL1 gene
  - 'miR-137 '
  - GRIA2 gene
  - PXLP-K396-GAD2
  - II)
  - 'SST(103-116) '
  - SGK1
  - ADP
  - MECP2:SIN3A:HDAC1:HDAC1:OPRM1 gene
  - 'BDNF gene '
  - 'PTPN4 gene '
  - 'p-S92-MECP2_e1 '
  - PTEN
  - 'p-T287-CAMK2D '
  - PTEN mRNA
  - MECP2:LBR
  - 'PTPN1 gene '
  - HIPK2
  - GAMT gene
  - 'DGCR8 '
  - OPRM1
  - 'GRIA2 gene '
  - MECP2:OPRK1 gene
  - MECP2:FOXG1
  - NOTCH1 mRNA
  - ATP
  - PPARG
  - PTPN4 gene
  - GAMT
  - 'MEF2C gene '
  - GPRIN1 gene
  - '5mC-DNA '
  - 'SIN3A '
  - MECP2:NCoR/SMRT
  - 'MECP2_e2 mRNA '
  - 'LBR '
  - MECP2:p-S133-CREB1
  - MECP2:MOBP gene
  - MECP2:PTPN4 gene
  - MECP2:5mC-DNA
  - 'GAMT gene '
  license: CC0
  name: Transcriptional regulation by MECP2
seo: CreativeWork
title: Transcriptional regulation by MECP2
wpid: WP4453
---